
   



Who's News 

Byers Communications Systems Inc. 

53 words 
8 August 1984
The Wall Street Journal 
English
(Copyright (c) 1984, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Byers Communications Systems Inc. (Atlanta) -- Lucius E. Burch III, president of Massey Burch Investment Group Inc., was elected a director of this telecommunications services and engineering concern. He fills the vacancy created by the resignation of William M. Spencer III, chairman of Molecular Engineering Associates Inc. 

Document j000000020011125dg8801nap


More Like This

 Article 2 *******************   



A WINNING BET. (HIGH TECH INVESTOR TOMMY DAVIS STARTS CATALYTICA ASSOCIATES INC.) 

By Thomas P. Murphy 
835 words 
14 January 1985
Forbes 
304 
English
Copyright Forbes Inc. 1985 

"I still don't understand what you are trying to do, but I know there is something there." 

With those words, Tommy Davis, dean of Silicon Valley's venture capitalists, launched two improbable partners in a high-risk-for-very-high-gain venture. The partners are a nice Jewish boy from Quito, Ecuador whose name is Ricardo B. Levy and a self-described Sicilian from Newark, N.J. named James A. Cusumano. The venture is called Catalytica Associates, Inc. 

What will Catalytica do? I sympathize with Davis' frustration, but let me try to explain. 

Levy, 39, and Cusumano, 42, both Ph.D. chemists (Stanford and Rutgers, respectively), believe that the world's chemical industry is on the brink of a revolution. Chemical process development, where Catalytica will concentrate, has always been based primarily on Edisonian research--if one thing doesn't work, try another. Edison experimented with thousands of different materials before he happened upon tungsten to make the filament for the electric light bulb. The world's chemical laboratories still proceed with a not too dissimilar approach. 

Levy and Cusumano think they can leapfrog this expensive and unpredictable process and take chemical research into what they call "molecular engineering." They think they can do this because, on a molecular level, both the theoretical understanding and the instrumentation are becoming available, just as a decade earlier theory and new instrumentation converged to create the biotechnology industry. 

Specifically, they are going after new catalysts for existing processes. Catalysts are the materials that create chemical reactions--the key to the rest of the process. According to Cusumano, they are looking for "knock out" economics. They want to develop catalysts that are so superior they economically obsolete whole plants and, coincidentally, send the big companies beating a path to Catalytica's Mountain View, Calif. door. 

None of this comes as startling news to researchers in the industry itself. In fact, Levy and Cusumano were both working at Exxon's big central research laboratory in New Jersey when one of them detected an entrepreneurial glint in the eye of the other. They quit Exxon and, in collaboration with Michele Boudart, professor of chemical engineering at Standford, set up a consulting business in 1974. It was pleasantly successful, and by 1980 the firm had 30 people and had finished 200 jobs all over the world. 

But solving other people's problems wasn't where it was at for Levy and Cusumano. The trouble was, where it was at was going to cost a lot of money. Enter Tommy Davis, founder of the Mayfield Fund of Palo Alto, Calif. But not directly. The introduction was arranged by one of Catalytica's board members, Paul Cook, who is founder and chairman of Raychem Corp. In fact, part of Catalytica's remarkable ability to raise money for a complicated and high-risk venture was the quality of its advisers, including four professors from Standford. One, Henry Taube, is a 1983 Nobel Prize winner in chemistry. 

Tommy Davis, then, had more to go on than the word of two conspicuously bright and eager men. Part of the chemistry establishment was firmly endorsing the people and their ideas when Davis agreed to back the new business. Eventually, along with Rothschild Inc. in New York, Davis invested about $3 million in 1983 and then, a couple of months ago, $2 million more in venture money, and up to $20 million more in a complicated joint venture arrangement with Lubrizol Enterprises, Inc. 

What happens now? According to Cusumano, the financings buy Catalytica four to five years of running time. They are not dismissing lightly the technical problems they face. 

Meantime, staff is growing. There are 50 people, half with Ph.D.s, and new instrumentation is on the way. A nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer (try saying that four times without stuttering) is coming. That hardware, to put what things cost in perspective, is $500,000. 

What about competition? There is none, as far as Cusumano knows, from small companies. The big laboratories are on the same trail, but the two partners both have big lab experience and, in typical Silicon Valley fashion, believe they can beat them. Big labs are hobbled, they say, by bureaucracy, and the scientists working in them lack the incentive--the chance to make a lot of money. 

What will they have if they succeed in developing some knockout, quality new catalysts? Patents, primarily. In the electronics industry having only patents would scare a venture capitalist half to death. The chemical industry is different. Historically, patents have been upheld by the courts, and the industry has a reputation of really paying royalties for the use of them. Beyond that, the leverage of knockout improvement is awesome. Many chemical plants are $100 million-plus capital investments. Imagine replacing a few of those. 

It wouldn't be the first time Tommy Davis had won by basically betting on people. 

Document fb00000020011125dh1e00001


More Like This

 Article 3 *******************   



MAPPING THE ATOMIC WORLD ONE ATOM AT A TIME 

Roger Schulman in New York 
888 words 
2 September 1985
Business Week 
Pg. 72D 
Vol. Number 2910 
English
Copyright 1985 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

It looks like a concoction straight out of Jules Verne: a stainless-steel contraption sprouting rivet-rimmed portholes and outsized knobs that seems more appropriate for Captain Nemo's submarine than for a modern electronics laboratory. Inside this ungainly housing resides a painfully delicate instrument--someone tiptoeing through the next room can throw it out of whack. Yet scientists are only too happy to put up with such exquisiteness. This is the most powerful microscope ever built, and it is fast uncovering fascinating new secrets of the microworld. 

''It's like turning on a light in a dark room,'' declares Marc H. Brodsky, a physicist at International Business Machines Corp.'s Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, N. Y. Called a scanning tunneling microscope, or STM, the instrument can magnify the surface of a material 1 million times. That's 20 times better than what the finest electron microscope can manage--and powerful enough to show individual atoms locked in atomic embrace. 

The world's first STM was built three years ago at IBM's lab in Zurich, Switzerland, culminating three years of development work. Since then, the microscope has rapidly become an essential tool for leading-edge research in microelectronics, and nearly a dozen more STMs have been hand-built at institutions as far-flung as Stanford University and the University of Madrid. Now, industrial research labs are starting to build tunneling microscopes as well--Ford Motor Co. is a case in point. OVERNIGHT SOLUTIONS. Scientists have already turned up some surprises with this new tool. With their homemade STM, researchers at AT&T Bell Telephone Laboratories in Short Hills, N. J., recently discovered puzzling, atom-size pits in the silicon crystals that are the foundation of modern semiconductor devices. Theoretically, the pits just shouldn't exist, says Venky Narayanamurti, a Bell Labs researcher. Consequently, ''the STM is completely revising our understanding of silicon,'' he adds. 

AT&T's STM also produced the firstpictures of the bond between siliconand germanium, a material used tomake microchips. ''We had debated about that endlessly,'' says Narayanamurti. ''The pictures simply solved the problem overnight.'' Knowing more about the atomic structure of semiconductor crystals may prove vital in designing microprocessors that are thousands of times more powerful than today's best computer-on-a-chip. 

Researchers are beginning to use the microscope to study biological molecules, too. The first fuzzy images of DNA and a common virus have helped confirm theories about the structures of these tiny organic chemicals. Such knowledge may one day enable genetic engineers to manipulate genes more precisely in order to develop new medical treatments. ''It looks like the STM could make major contributions in many fields,'' says Randall M. Feenstra, a scientist who works with one of the IBM microscopes. Unlike optical and electron microscopes, an STM uses no lenses of any kind. Instead, it ''traces'' the surface features of a material with a needle-sharp tungsten electrode. The tip of the needle is positioned an infinitesimally short distance from the surface under study. The gap is only 10 angstroms (0.00000004 in.) or less. TUNNEL VISION. At this minute distance, a phenomenon known as ''tunneling'' occurs: Electrons begin jumping from the tip of the electrode into the atoms that make up the material. The shorter the gap, the greater the electron flow. Computerized instruments monitor this flow and feed the information to a computer-controlled tripod that lifts and lowers the needle to keep the rate constant while the tip creeps ever so slowly across the surface of the material. 

An electronic plotter linked to the electrode draws a picture of the needle's journey, tracing the microcontours of the surface and revealing variations as subtle as one-tenth the diameter of an atom. Then, using image-enhancement techniques--similar to those that help spy satellites read license plates on cars from 20,000 mi. up--the line drawings are transformed into pictures of astounding clarity. Here are detailed maps of the plains, plateaus, and mountain ranges of the atomic world. 

''The trick,'' says Brodsky, ''is to get the thing to operate without the slightest vibration.'' To do that, the Zurich inventors devised an ingenious housing: a spring-cushioned platform wrapped in a magnetically isolated cocoon enclosed by a vacuum on a table protected by pneumatic shock absorbers. The vacuum not only insulates the mechanism from sound-wave vibrations but also maintains the surface cleanliness of the material being studied. The whole affair makes an STM perhaps the most stable object in the world. 

Ultimately, the technology may be adapted to convert the microscope into the world's smallest ''machine tool.'' Minute electrical charges delivered through the needle tip could, for example, trigger chemical reactions to create custom-tailored molecules. Or the needle could be used to etch semiconductor circuits less than an angstrom wide, many times smaller than those on today's tiniest chips. 

Meanwhile, technicians continue to improve the STM as a research tool. IBM is designing a ''pocket'' scope that is only about 10 in. high. ''We could probably design an STM that's easier to use,'' says Feenstra of IBM. ''But right now, we're more interested in doing the science and getting results.'' 

Document bw00000020011128dh92002v9


More Like This

 Article 4 *******************   



Science & Technology A CRYSTAL-CLEAR VIEW OF THE WORLD'S TINY WONDERS --- A NEW MICROSCOPE PRODUCES AMAZINGLY DETAILED IMAGES OF ATOMS--USING ALMOST PRIMITIVE TECHNOLOGY 

Steve Dickman and Otis Port in New York 
1,204 words 
3 November 1986
Business Week 
Pg. 134 
Vol. Number 2971 
English
Copyright 1986 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

For nearly 300 years, scientists have peered through lenses to peek into the microworld. Lensmakers refined the crude instrument invented by Dutch scientist Anton van Leeuwenhoek in 1674 into powerful optical microscopes that could discern bacteria. Then, in 1931, German scientist Ernst Ruska used a magnetic field as a lens to fashion the first of a generation of electron microscopes that would eventually produce fuzzy images of individual atoms. 

Now microscopy has made another leap. With a device called a scanning tunneling microscope (STM), scientists are viewing unprecedented vistas of the atomic structure of matter. Such a microscope recently astounded the scientific world by providing the first pictures ever of the electron bonds that hold atoms together. Incredibly, the lens is being shoved aside by a simple mechanical stylus that traces the contours of individual atoms the way a needle follows the grooves in a phonographic record. ''It's such a primitive instrument--a rusty nail that you scratch across the surface'' of some material, says co-inventor Gerd K. Binnig, a physicist at the IBM Research Laboratory in Zurich. ''When we told the people here in the lab what we wanted to do,'' says Heinrich Rohrer, the STM's other parent, ''they all said, 'You are completely crazy--but if it works, you'll get the Nobel prize.' '' Sure enough, in mid-October the Swedish Academy of Science awarded the Nobel prize in physics to the IBM scientists. The award came only five years after they built the first STM. Usually, the academy waits much longer. For instance, the two IBM researchers shared the physics prize with Ernst Ruska 55 years after his invention of the electron microscope. NEEDLE-SHARP. There seems little doubt that the STM is destined to become an indispensable tool in a wide range of disciplines. Other research labs have already built more than 60 copies of the microscope, and the number of STMs in operation is doubling every six months. STMs are now being used for basic research in biology, chemistry, and physics, as well as for applied work in bioengineering, metallurgy, and microelectronics. Says physicist Robert C. Jaklevic of the Ford Scientific Laboratory in Dearborn, Mich.: ''Someday, every lab will have one.'' 

The key to the STM's performance is keeping a needle-sharp stylus an excruciatingly constant distance from the surface of a sample. This is possible thanks to a mysterious phenomenon known as tunneling: Electrons at the probe's tip disappear and instantly reappear on the sample's surface, creating a minute electrical current. Because that current varies with the distance between the probe and the surface, lifting and lowering the probe to keep the current constant will produce a line tracing the peaks of individual atoms and the valleys between. Dozens of such traces at minuscule intervals provide a computer with the raw data to generate a three-dimensional image of the surface. 

That simple device can be astonishingly precise. A single atom is approximately 1 angstrom, or 2.5 billionths of an inch, in diameter. The STM can trace some details as tiny as 0.1 angstrom. Its average resolution is now 0.7 angstrom--twice as powerful as the world's best electron microscope. 'EXTREMELY EXCITING.' Researchers are using STMs to tackle problems that have been out of reach with existing microscopes. Scientists in the petrochemical and pharmaceutical industries believe that STMs may allow them to figure out--finally--why catalysts cause some chemical reactions to take place. Such information could open the door to ''designer catalysts.'' Biologists are looking to the STM to give them a new look at the structure of living organisms. While the electron microscope makes many details visible, samples are damaged by the electron beam and must be viewed in a high vacuum. With the STM, things can be examined in their natural state--even under water. Researchers at the University of Madrid have already mapped the surface of a virus. ''Ultimately,'' says Andreas H. Engel, a physicist at the University of Basel in Switzerland, ''the STM may show us the relationship between the structure and function of proteins.'' 

Although the technology of scanning tunneling microscopy is still in knee pants, some visionaries are eager to push it out of the laboratory and into practical applications. R. Fabian W. Pease, a professor of electrical engineering at Stanford University, believes that the STM idea can be modified to print the extremely fine lines on future integrated circuits. By ganging several STM probes together, he hopes to ''write'' circuit lines on multiple chips. These lines--less than a half-micron wide--are too fine to be seen by light and thus can't be printed photographically. ''Pease's work is extremely exciting and very innovative,'' says Donald J. Silversmith, a program director at the National Science Foundation, which is funding his research. NO FOCUS. Even entrepreneurs are catching STM fever. Quanscan Inc. was founded last February with the express goal of putting STM principles to work in a variety of fields. Quanscan's chief product, still under development, will adapt the STM technology to allow ultra-precise position control. Wilfred P. Charette, president of the Pasadena (Calif.) company, envisions applications in robotics, machining, and microsurgery. 

Already, the STM is spawning a whole family of lensless, essentially mechanical tools for attacking microscopic problems. Because an STM has no lens, it has no focus to adjust. So researchers are developing other types of probes to look at different sizes of microscopic features. IBM, for example, is pioneering the scanning thermal probe. It is similar to the STM, except that its probe is heated. The closer its tip comes to a surface, the faster it loses heat. And it has just the right resolution to examine submicron circuit paths on silicon microchips. ''If you look 5 to 10 years into the future,'' says Thomas H. Di Stefano, a physicist at IBM's Yorktown Heights (N. Y.) research lab, ''it's likely people will be using an arsenal of microprobes, including some we haven't found yet.'' 

All the excitement over mechanical microscopy has proponents of conventional techniques chafing to prove that lenses still have potential. At the University of Chicago, physicist Albert V. Crewe is working on an advanced lens system for an electron microscope. If it performs as expected, says Crewe, it will achieve resolutions down to 0.5 angstrom. He hopes to have a working model by yearend. 

No one, however, is betting that the resolving power of STMs and their mechanical cousins is anywhere near its limits. How much farther it will go is unknown, of course, but the performance of electron microscopes started out in the hundreds of angstroms. Even if STMs don't match that magnitude of improvement, ''the STM has pointed the direction for everybody else,'' asserts Clayton C. Williams, an IBM researcher. ''It's a momentous development.'' 

ROHRER AND BINNIG: COLLEAGUES SAID, ''YOU'LL GET THE NOBEL PRIZE.'' THEY WERE RIGHT 

THE PICTURE FROM THE STM: SILICON ATOMS IN CLOSE-UP 

Document bw00000020011119dib3000u9


More Like This

 Article 5 *******************   



Technology in the Workplace (A Special Report): Cover --- Frontiers of Science: Changing the Ways You'll Live and Work 

By William M. Bulkeley 
2,549 words 
10 November 1986
The Wall Street Journal 
English
(Copyright (c) 1986, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

IN SOME U.S. LABORATORY, amid a clutter of vacuum chambers and thermoses of liquid nitrogen and computer screens, scientists are doing research that will win Nobel Prizes in the next decade. 

Some of that work will be esoteric computation with little immediate practical value. But much of it is likely to be applied quickly by engineers and technicians. A scientist who is now treading the frontiers of knowledge may change our lives as profoundly as the Nobel Prize-winning Bell Laboratories physicists who ushered in the computer age by inventing the transistor in 1947. 

Corporate, university and government researchers are working on technologies that will change the workplace of tomorrow. Major advances in materials science, genetic engineering, catalytic science, communications, computers and artificial intelligence are providing a foundation for changing the methods and even the kinds of work people will do in 20 years. 

Just as the transistor worked its way into numerous products and made possible things that weren't possible before, today's research will result in an array of products that people are beginning to talk about: aircraft that can ascend into space and travel from New York to Tokyo in three hours, genetically engineered plants that create their own fertilizer, synthetic diamond-film coatings that make nearly indestructible cutting tools, "designer" catalysts that don't occur naturally and that can cheaply turn natural gas into gasoline. 

Predicting exactly how scientific breakthroughs will have the greatest impact on the future is difficult. "How technology is going to be used is fuzzy in everyone's mind," says Joel I. Krugler, director of a Waltham, Mass., research laboratory of GTE Corp. "Despite all the strategic planning in the world, you're not going to anticipate the breakthroughs." Nevertheless, he says, "The general summary is fairly clear. The standard trend in my lifetime is faster, smaller and smarter." 

Driving that trend is scientists' growing ability to study the building blocks of matter. Advances in basic research are making it possible to "start with a need and then develop a material to meet it, atom by atom," says Joel P. Clark, a professor of materials science at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

As engineers grow familiar with atoms and biologists control genes, science is quickly being translated into technology. Close study of molecular reactions leads some to hope they can design catalysts that don't exist in nature. "New tools and information from new disciplines have created an age of molecular engineering. That has been the dream of chemists for decades," says James Cusumano, chairman of Catalytica Associates Inc., a Mountain View, Calif., research and development company. 

Other scientists are figuring out how to design computers that handle such routine human tasks as seeing, hearing and learning. They are developing a whole new science of surfaces and thin films that may explain and eventually help prevent unwanted corrosion, fractures, fatigue and separation. Such knowledge promises things like lighter, stronger car bodies and flat plastic computer screens that can be folded up and stuffed in a coat pocket. 

But imagination often outruns technology, and some of the research may take far longer than anyone thinks now. Futurists' forecasts in the 1960s often envisioned robots that moved around easily, saw where they were going and took over menial tasks. Today, however, it has become clear that human sight and movement take far more neurons than computers have transistors, and menial jobs such as cleaning an office stymie the best robots. 

On the other hand, scientists have produced expert computer systems that are better at playing chess or writing financial plans than all but a few humans. And sometimes events render technologies irrelevant -- at least for a while. Solar energy, for example, hasn't spread as expected for a number of reasons, the most important of which is that oil hasn't risen to $50 a barrel. 

Nevertheless, as basic research provides greater knowledge, engineers steadily apply it to existing problems. Such applications inevitably have broad impact, in some ways unforeseen. Some once-valuable commodities may become as irrelevant as whale oil. For example, the biological engineering that is likely to create grains that thrive in saline soils of the Third World will worsen the developed world's farm export problems. Engineering of the very pure glass needed for fiberoptic communications has already made copper cable obsolete in the long-distance telephone market. Genetic engineers' creation of "super cows" is already worsening milk surpluses. 

But, U.S. scientists say, pushing research is the only way for the U.S. and other developed nations to maintain their economies, because developing nations will inevitably learn to produce the less technically demanding materials and products. 

Little known to most consumers -- who seldom think much about the materials that go into the products they use -- is the revolution in materials science caused by burgeoning understanding of molecular structures. Those structures determine how heavy products are and how long they last -- indeed, even whether they can be produced. Instead of just mixing alloys, or discovering molecularly different materials by accident, scientists are increasingly setting out to make new materials -- and are succeeding in that task. 

The promise of some new materials is creating a "product pull" for other engineers, says Peter R. Bridenbaugh, vice president of research and development at Aluminum Co. of America. For example, he says, the potential for creating new types of fiber-reinforced ceramic mixtures that won't crack and that can survive 2,200-degree temperatures is driving aeronautical engineers to conceive of airplanes that zoom into space for quick transcontinental flights. Without such materials for turbine blades, the planes couldn't efficiently develop enough thrust. 

Ceramics scientists joke about a "new Stone Age" in which ceramics will be as important as steel. Though progress has been slow to date, their technology may yet provide the means to make a smaller, lighter car engine that runs at higher temperatures, doesn't need a radiator or lubrication and uses less gasoline. 

Ceramics tend to crack, though, and scientists are doing basic research on how to make blends of ceramics, metals and plastics that perform better than any known materials. The blending isn't easy, says John B. Wachtman Jr., director of the Center for Ceramics Research at Rutgers University. "You're on a scale where the chemical and electrical forces are comparable to the gravitational forces," he explains. "If you can't control it, the fibers all stick together." 

Still, it is much easier to create a material in a laboratory than it is to make use of it. "We know how to make very light, strong composites for auto bodies," says Richard K. Quisenberry, director of research at Du Pont Co. "We don't know how to put them together in a way that is competitive with stamping sheet steel." 

Solving such problems is vital, though. "Advanced materials, specialty polymers, ceramics, are the absolute core to advanced technologies in the future," says Kent Bowen, a professor at MIT. "Whoever wins that game has the jobs, sells the cars, the machinery, the electronics, because they can design far beyond people who have only plain vanilla materials," he says. And he worries that the Japanese are appropriating superior American science and applying it faster than American companies are. 

However, U.S. scientists themselves are chasing Japanese and Soviet scientists in another material science -- creating films of synthetic diamonds. Hydrogen and methane, the main components of natural gas, can be passed through a microwave that strips hydrogen atoms from the methane, leaving carbon atoms to form a diamond-lattice film on an object. Such films might make fantastically reliable computer parts -- or could be the basis of drill-bit coatings, long-wearing bearings, unscratchable lenses, even music speakers. 

Better understanding of atomic structures promises improved catalysts. Catalysts cause chemical reactions in other materials by breaking and reshaping molecular bonds. Under the right heat and pressure, they can turn vegetable oil to margarine and automotive pollutants to harmless byproducts. 

Mr. Cusumano of Catalytica predicts that his company will be able to devise a catalyst that can turn cheap natural gas into valuable gasoline in a simple process at the wellhead. That would eliminate the need to build high-pressure pipelines through remote areas or to liquefy natural gas and transport it on costly ships. Ordinary oil pipelines or tankers could do the job. Other scientists expect to design a catalyst that can convert natural gas into electricity in a fuel cell. 

In agriculture, genetic engineers expect to develop plants that can absorb nitrogen from air -- cutting the need for fertilizer -- and that will resist disease, lessening the need for fungicides. Grains that thrive in saline soils and dry conditions should improve food supplies in the Third World. 

Genetic engineering promises faster plant development and ever larger food surpluses. To achieve that, scientists are delving more deeply into how plants work. At chemical maker Du Pont, which spends 22% of its research and development budget on life sciences, Mr. Quisenberry, the research director, says scientists recently X-rayed the structure of the plant enzyme that is crucial to photosynthesis. "At its ultimate, understanding photosynthesis is the first step to regulating photosynthesis. You could find a way to produce a soybean that stores twice as much protein as now," he says. 

The most intensively studied of all materials is silicon, the heart of the computer. Researchers say that silicon chips can be improved for another decade. Beyond that, they look to gallium arsenide chips, which transmit electrons faster but are harder to work with. 

In one of the more remarkable recent achievements in the growing ability to understand the atomic structure of matter, Robert J. Hamers, a 28-year-old scientist at International Business Machines Corp.'s Watson Laboratories, took pictures that show the electron bonds between silicon atoms as well as the atoms themseleves. Working late at night when building vibrations were minimal, Mr. Hamers made the pictures with the help of a device called a scanning tunneling microscope, invented by IBM scientists in 1981. The device is so precise it can portray a surface from a distance of three atom widths. Someday, it may help IBM make faster computers. 

George Heilmeier, senior vice president and chief technical officer of Texas Instruments Inc., says that the company's scientists are studying different ways to design computer chips to limit the amount of wiring between transistors and increase speed. He says "in the distant future we might consider an array of devices talking only to their nearest neighbors" and relaying needed information. Such a design would require new ways of writing computer programs. 

Mr. Heilmeier says the world needs much more computer power. "Our industry produces the equivalent of one human brain per year," he says, calculating that the entire semiconductor industry produces as many bits of memory annually as there are synapses in one brain. 

Clever scientists are trying to redesign computers and to rethink software so that specialized machines can do tasks that only people now can do. Researchers are trying to develop a machine that can take dictation and type letters, or accurately translate languages. 

Many computer scientists are working on new designs for computers that will let thousands of small microprocessors be hooked together and share information, much the way brain cells have been shown to work. The Connection Machine, a massively parallel processor designed by Thinking Machines Corp., a small Cambridge, Mass., company, ties together 64,000 processors. Because each processor does a small portion of a project, it is much faster for some uses than current computers that solve problems sequentially. It is better at "seeing" than traditional computers because it looks at an entire photograph at once rather than starting in one corner and examining the photo bit by bit. It can quickly draw contour maps from airplane photographs. 

But before truly intelligent robots are possible, vastly more computer power is almost certainly needed. Hans Moravec, a senior research scientist at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh, says, "Conventional artificial intelligence has addressed only surface-level thought. It's much harder to address the substantial amount going on subconsciously." 

Mr. Moravec is building mobile robots, and he keeps working to make them more human. He expects one will soon be able to be led through a space, gather information every few feet to build an internal map and then find its own way around the area by comparing information gathered by its sonar sensors to the internal map. He hopes the robot will evolve to the point of showing fear. "If it detects signs of danger" -- a stairwell, say -- "it starts acting in a different mode. It will start sensing a lot more, and that's the right thing for it to do. Sometimes it will be frightened by shadows." 

But, he laments, human vision systems involve 100 billion computations a second, 1,000 times more computations than today's fastest computer can do. "We need one trillion operations per second to do human intelligence," he says. "We should have that rather cheaply -- in 40 years." 

--- 

Mr. Bulkeley reports on computers and technology from The Wall Street Journal's Boston bureau. 

--- State by State Where the U.S. government's R&D budget is spent (Obligations for fiscal 1985, in millions of dollars) 

Percent Change Allocation 1980-1985 

1 California $10,767.6 77% 2 Maryland 4,408.4 79 3 Massachusetts 3,268.7 60 4 New York 3,123.8 113 5 Virginia 2,469.6 133 6 New Mexico 2,364.5 148 7 District of Columbia 2,081.5 158 8 New Jersey 1,789.7 145 9 Texas 1,654.7 82 10 Ohio 1,518.5 44 11 Pennsylvania 1,330.4 26 12 Florida 1,193.7 7 13 Washington 1,032.3 8 14 Alabama 896.5 97 15 Illinois 770.6 28 16 Connecticut 742.9 58 17 Minnesota 714.1 173 18 Missouri 694.9 -13 19 Colorado 629.3 10 20 Tennessee 556.3 -23 21 Michigan 504.1 34 22 Nevada 490.3 129 23 North Carolina 477.0 109 24 Arizona 456.7 36 25 Rhode Island 334.0 123 26 Georgia 289.6 71 27 Idaho 259.5 76 28 Utah 249.8 2 29 Indiana 226.9 40 30 Wisconsin 196.4 61 31 Mississippi 172.7 58 32 Oregon 153.0 56 33 Iowa 149.3 23 34 Kansas 138.2 -61 35 New Hampshire 129.7 158 36 South Carolina 119.5 37 37 Louisiana 117.3 -40 38 Oklahoma 83.2 -12 39 West Virginia 66.1 -57 40 Kentucky 65.6 -39 41 Hawaii 57.9 36 42 Alaska 50.8 20 43 Arkansas 38.5 28 44 Vermont 37.8 3 45 Maine 36.6 41 46 Delaware 35.4 70 47 Nebraska 34.6 9 48 North Dakota 33.0 -15 49 Montana 27.2 -40 50 Wyoming 25.3 -53 51 South Dakota 14.3 44 

U.S. territories 62.4 38 Foreign offices 35.9 -51 Total 47,176.2 65 

Source: National Science Foundation, 1986 

Document j000000020011119diba00uve


More Like This

 Article 6 *******************   



Developments to Watch 

EDITED BY SANA SIWOLOP 
963 words 
9 March 1987
Business Week 
Pg. 103 
Vol. Number 2988 
English
Copyright 1987 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

PUSHING COMPUTERS TO RUN WITH SUPERCONDUCTING CHIPS When International Business Machines Corp. decided in 1983 to scuttle its 20-year, $300 million investment in Josephson junctions, lots of people also wrote off the idea of using those superconducting circuits to build ultrafast computers. But not IBM researcher Sadeg M. Faris, who left Big Blue to found Hypres Inc. On Feb. 19, Faris' Elmsford (N. Y.) startup passed a milestone by unveiling the world's first commercial system based on Josephson junctions, which switch on and off roughly 1,000 times faster than semiconductor transistors. 

What Hypres has built is a fairly modest computer, a $120,000 machine for analyzing electronic signals. But the Hypres PSP-1000 also contains the key to more sophisticated systems. Faris says his team solved the puzzles that stumped IBM. For example, Hypres does not immerse the chips in liquid helium to cool them to the ultralow temperatures required for superconductivity. It simply sprays liquid helium on one corner of the chip where all the logic circuits are located. The ultimate payoff, Faris predicts, will be computers that work at close to the speed of light. ''We've launched the third age of electronics, after vacuum tubes and transistors,'' boasts Faris. THE STRENGTHENING CASE AGAINST ADDING DRUGS TO ANIMAL FEED Feed low doses of antibiotics to animals and they grow up faster and healthier. But evidence that those drugs produce resistant strains of bacteria that can infect people is mounting. In 1984 researchers at the federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta provided the first direct evidence that meat contaminated with drug-resistant bacteria caused an outbreak of salmonella food poisoning. Now the CDC says it has collected more data in a further study, which appears in the Mar. 5 issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. 

The new findings will fuel efforts to ban drugs and some additives from animal feed, a $2 billion market in the U. S. The Food & Drug Administration first proposed such a ban in 1978, but Congress sided with the drugmakers who contended that the evidence was inconclusive. Now several lawmakers, including Senator John H. Chafee (R-R. I.), say they will reintroduce bills to control agricultural use of antibiotics. A 'TWEEZER' THAT CAN PICK UP ATOMS Imagine being able to reach into the atomic structureof substances and reshuffle the atoms to produce precisely the properties you want. Doing that routinely is still years away, but researchers at AT&T Bell Laboratories have taken the first step: They recently transplanted a clump of just 10 atoms. The ''tweezer'' the researchers used was the supersharp tip of a scanning tunneling microscope. An STM is so remarkably sensitive that it can actually trace the contours of individual atoms (BW--Nov. 3). 

While studying the surface of germanium crystals, Russell S. Becker and two co-researchers noticed that the STM's tip sometimes seemed to pick up atoms here and deposit them elsewhere. They found they could control this to a degree by adjusting the electrical potential between the needle and the surface. If the technique can be perfected, scientists may be able to change the position of single atoms. That could lead to a new generation of tailor-made semiconductor materials. THESE PLANTS SOP UP METAL POLLUTANTS Jimson weed ranks high among pesky plants. It has a foul smell and is toxic to grazing animals. But even jimson weed may have a use: It has a novel capacity to sop up metals. While most plants will die in soil contaminated with copper or cadmium, some types of jimson weed flourish. 

That's why the Energy Dept. is interested. Jimson weed and a few other plants such as monkey flower may be just the thing for greening old strip mines or producing ''crops'' of metal from industrial wastes. Other metal-loving plants might be better able to withstand acid rain, which leaches toxic aluminum from rocks. Biologists at the University of California at Los Angeles have one candidate: a shrub related to the coffee plant that concentrates up to 800 times the normal level of aluminum in its leaves. 

Researchers at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico have discovered why some plants thrive on metals. The secret is a protein that latches onto metals to prevent them from entering cells. The researchers are now trying to find the gene that codes for the production of the protein so that it can be transferred into other species. Eventually, the protein itself could be used in industrial pollution control. WHY THE EYES VOTE 'NAY' ON SODIUM-VAPOR LAMPS In some cities, they're known as ''crime lights,'' and their yellow-orange glow is familiar around parking lots and along highways. But high-pressure sodium lamps are also used indoors, in schools and offices. And many office workers and students are complaining of ills from eyestrain to nausea. 

Samuel M. Berman, director of the lighting research program at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, found a reason for the complaints. The problem is that people don't see as well with sodium lamps as they do with incandescent lights of equal brightness. The proof lies in the size of the eye's pupil. When the pupil contracts, it means the available light is bright enough for optimal vision. ''The smaller the pupil, the better your acuity,'' Berman explains. 

But Berman found that pupil size is also affected by the type of light used, regardless of brightness. And under sodium lights, subjects' pupils were larger than with incandescent light of the same intensity. Berman believes the eye was straining because it was uncomfortable with the sodium color spectrum. The problem with sodium light? It's ''the flagrant absence of blue,'' Berman says. 

Document bw00000020011118dj39000ny


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 7 *******************   



DANCING ON THE HEAD OF A PIN. (ATOM-SIZE BREAKTHROUGHS IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY) 

By Gail Bronson 
1,043 words 
6 April 1987
Forbes 
152 
English
Copyright Forbes Inc. 1987 

Dancing on the head of a pin 

At the National Nanofabrication Facility in Ithaca, N.Y., industrial and academic researchers are patiently pursuing ways to design communications and data processing components down to the size of ten atoms--a nanometer, to be precise. 

Using silicon and gallium arsenide wafers, scientists are styling transistors so tiny they today exist only in the imagination of manufacturers. However, once these devices move from the laboratory into production, the limits of technological innovation will become virtually boundless. 

Faster processing of greater quantities of information and crystal-clear satellite transmissions will be only teh initial result. Further out, scientists foresee the ability to communicate more easily with interplanetary space probes as well as to record and interpret what for now remain unintelligible signals from distant stars. And, astounding though it sounds, somewhere down the road engineers may well be building computers composed of living, biological organisms rather than electronic components. 

All of this will be made possible by the microelectronics industry's progress toward not just smaller and smaller components but also those of radically different design and conception. "Right now people are making the same sorts of transistors that they've made from the very beginning, just smaller,' says Gregory J. Galvin, Nanofabrication lab's deputy director. "Somewhere that has to change to something fundamentally different from transistors and yet somehow analogous.' 

That shift may well ensue from research using the Nanolab's prized electron beam lithography machine. This highly sophisticated system allows scientists to construct transistors containing electron pathways as narrow as 0.02 microns--roughly one ten-thousandth the diameter of a human hair--an infinitesimal size compared with current electronic component dimensions. Transistors are the tiny structures built on a thin silicon or gallium arsenide "semiconductor' base; the devices collectively channel electrons that power electronic products. As scientists are able to pack more transistors into each square millimeter of a semiconductor chip, the smarter, faster and more powerful the chip becomes. 

The ability to fabricate electronics in such extreme microscopic sizes makes the lab invaluable to visiting scientists. A handful of companies, such as AT&T's Bell Laboratories and Raytheon Inc., have bought or built similar machines. But only at the Nanolab, funded by the National Science Foundation, Cornell University and corporations, can outsiders use equipment that costs $2 million to $3 million to acquire. 

The standard industry process for making silicon wafers, optical lithography, uses a mask or stencil as a template through which patterns may be etched on semiconductor wafers photographically. The process is fast but not terribly precise when compared with the tedious but elegant inscriptions made possible by the Nanolab's lithographic machine. The latter procedure is slow going because the entire surface of the chip cannot be exposed to the narrow electron beam at once. Instead, the beam writes the pattern line by line, guided by a computer. One wafer may take an hour to etch. 

Although the Nanolab research is time-consuming, results are starting to trickle out. McDonnell Douglas researchers soon will announce a new sculpting technique to etch patterns on the faces of laser crystals no bigger than grains of sand; the resulting devices will improve laser-based communications systems. 

"Such systems will eventually replace microwaves,' predicts McDonnell Douglas senior scientist Peter Tihanyi, who foresees much demand for these devices by the military. "The transmissions from them cannot be decoded and diverted in the way that other forms of communications currently can be.' 

General Electric, too, has used the Nanolab. GE used the Ithaca facilities to design a 0.25-micron transistor for the Defense Department. Now the contractor is working at the lab to fabricate even faster 0.1-micron gallium arsenide transistors. "This lab is an important strategic planning tool for us to determine our future direction,' says Alan Swanson, manager of General Electric's materials and devices laboratory. 

Although AT&T Bell Labs has its own electron beam lithographer, it has used the Ithaca facility's as well. At the Nanolab, in October 1985, AT&T researchers created what at the time was the world's fastest semiconductor device. It was capable of switching an electronic signal on and off in 5.8 trillionths of a second-- important in the designing of everfaster computers. 

Additional Nanolab research runs the gamut from biology to condensed particle physics. University of Rochester researchers are exploring how blood cells grow and mature in the body's bone marrow and then move into general circulation. The apertures from the marrow into the blood stream are of micron size. Without tiny lab-built models from the Nanolab, it would be impossible to conduct various studies that may provide clues to how cancer and other diseases affect blood cells. 

Plant research by Cornell University biologists could lead to savings of anywhere from $20 million to $250 million in bean crop damage annually. By exposing bean rust fungus to a microscopic wafer that mimics a leaf's surface, the scientists have been able to determine that the fungus navigates, using a sophisticated sense of touch. From that insight the biologists hope to develop ways of halting the blight's spread (see picture on opposite page). 

Physicists at the University of Pennsylvania are using the lab to study the basic properties of exotic materials that are not found in nature. Electron-beam-designed models allow scientists to "trick' electrons into performing on a submicron scale in ways impossible to engineer at an atomic level. 

Companies in Japan, the U.K. and the Netherlands produce electron beam lithography machines, as does Perkin-Elmer in the U.S. But the devices carry seven-digit price tags, and when the use of the same equipment at a nominal cost is readily available at the Nanolab, why buy one? For now, at least, it looks as if the Nanolab will continue to have all the work it can handle. 

Photo: Bean rust fungus 

Understanding crop diseases could save millions. 

Photo: Nanofabrication lab engineer Richard Tiberio and (left) magnification of chip he is holding 

The smaller, the smarter. 

ILLUSTRATION: photograph - chart CAPTION: Diagram of a transistor. 


Document fb00000020011118dj4600097


More Like This

 Article 8 *******************   


IBM SETS OFF THE STAMPEDE TO SUPERCONDUCTING. (J. GEORG BEDNORZ AND K. ALEX MULLER) (BUSINESS PEOPLE OF THE YEAR) BIOGRAPHY 

By Anthony Ramirez 
1,799 words 
4 January 1988
Fortune 
39 
English
Copyright Time Inc. 1988 

TWO PHYSICISTS, working in a modest Swiss hilltop laboratory in 1986, made a breakthrough that may change the world. They discovered how to give certain substances properties that could make possible economical transmission of electricity over vast distances with virtually no loss of current. In time that discovery could lead to magnetic trains that reach 300 miles an hour, ultrafast computers, far more efficient power transmission, and clean, plentiful energy from nuclear fusion. With unusual swiftness, the two International Business Machines researchers won the ultimate recognition of their work: The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences awarded J. Georg Bednorz and K. Alex Muller the 1987 Nobel Prize in physics. 

Superconductivity had long been scientifically fascinating but commercially barren because it worked only at temperatures so low that supercold and superexpensive liquid helium had to be used as the refrigerant. That was until Bednorz and Muller fashioned an exotic ceramic that worked as a superconductor at warmer temperatures than any material had before. The achievement set off a race that dominated the scientific news of 1987 and culminated in the discovery by U.S. researchers of a material that may conduct electricity almost perfectly at a mere -54 degrees F. Since then others have reported evidence that superconductivity could be possible at room temperature and even well above it. 

In a reflective moment, Muller says that success in science, a quintessentially rational endeavor, requires something of the irrational -- ''the internal fire,'' in his phrase. That fire burns bright in both Bednorz and Muller, who make a couple as odd as the substance they created. Bednorz, 37, a German school principal's son, is a cheery laboratory whiz who pads around in white socks and sandals, an ash-laden cigarette dangling from his lips. Muller, 60, a Swiss whose grandfather founded Grison, a chocolate maker, is the picture of a tweedy, absent-minded professor, an intense intellectual who reads Jung, listens to Bach, and rarely appears in the lab, preferring to do much of his work at home. Apart from physics, Bednorz and Muller seem to have just one thing in common: Both like to fix old cars. 

Together, doer and thinker, they hit upon a paradoxical approach to making superconductors: fashioning them out of insulators, which by definition conduct little or no electricity. Strong atomic forces bind their electrons tightly to their nuclei, impeding the flow of current. Good conductors have electrons that don't bind so tightly, enhancing the flow of current. By tinkering with its molecular structure, Bednorz and Muller were able to use an insulator's strong atomic forces to pull electrons from atom to atom, thus coaxing the insulator into superconductivity. Fired as a ceramic, Bednorz and Muller's creation resembles the materials used in some kinds of cookware. 

As relative novices in a field that seemed near a dead end, Bednorz and Muller had nothing to lose by trying the unconventional. The staff of their IBM laboratory in Ruschlikon, near Zurich, includes at least five other scientists with doctoral degrees or other research experience in superconductivity. Among them: Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer, winners of the 1986 Nobel Prize in physics, who built the scanning tunneling microscope that can picture objects as tiny as individual atoms. Bednorz sees a similarity between his and Muller's work and Binnig and Rohrer's in microscopy, where they too were novices. Says Bednorz: ''They had a certain degree of ignorance. They simply ignored the judgment of people who had worked on the problem before and started with their own ideas, which were not very obvious.'' 

SINCE 1911 scientists have known that electrical conductivity increases as temperature decreases. At ordinary temperatures, even in a good conductor like copper, electrons waste some of their energy through scattering. As the temperature drops, electrons scatter less and conductivity rises. At -459.7 degrees F., absolute zero, electrons stop scattering completely. Just before that theoretical point, electrons in a properly cooled superconductor can glide effortlessly, without resistance. 

Cooling substances to extremely low temperatures is cumbersome and expensive. So for decades scien tists sought superconductors that would work at temperatures significantly above absolute zero. By the 1970s the quest had largely been abandoned. But not in the mind of Alex Muller, who was intrigued by the idea that nonconductors -- insulators -- might somehow superconduct. 

To find the right compound, Muller needed someone with greater gifts in the laboratory than his. A specialist in crystals that carry an electric charge, Muller picked Bednorz, who had shown promise as a crystal grower while still an undergraduate in IBM Zurich's summer program. He was a newly minted Ph.D. from the nearby Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (known by its German initials, ETH). Following Muller's theories, Bednorz used a simple mortar, pestle, and oven to mix and temper some 60 different compounds. He fired them as ceramics because they would be quicker and easier to work with than unstable, hard-to-prepare crystals. 

By autumn 1985, Muller and Bednorz were fresh out of leads. Then Bednorz, looking through the literature in the IBM library, came across an article by researchers at the University of Caen in France. Describing their search for new catalysts to speed up chemical reactions, the Caen scientists mentioned a compound of copper and oxygen, with traces of barium and lanthanum. They hadn't tested it for superconductivity. Says Bednorz with a large grin: ''I realized that this material would fulfill all our requirements.'' 

In January 1986, working alone in his ground-floor lab, Bednorz chilled the copper oxide the French had described and found that resistance dropped sharply at -440 degrees F. Bednorz was elated. Testing the substance again the following morning, he found the resistance drop was no fluke. Over the next few months Bednorz meticulously varied the barium concentration and the oven temperature, reducing the substance's resistance to zero and raising the superconducting temperature to a record-breaking -406 degrees F. 

But a problem remained. Two tests are required to establish superconductivity: zero resistance and the so-called Meissner effect, the repulsion of a magnetic field much as one magnet repels another. IBM's magnetometer for measuring the Meissner effect was still on order. Wanting to publish but uneasy about lacking the second test, Bednorz and Muller submitted a cautious paper in April 1986 to a German journal, Zeitschrift fur Physik. They would at least be on record. Only the Japanese snapped to attention. In December a group at the University of Tokyo published exhaustive Meissner effect data on the Bednorz-Muller compound, confirming the breakthrough. 

AN INTERNATIONAL RACE was on to improve superconductors, perhaps to the point where they would need no coolant at all. A University of Houston group raised the superconducting temperature of a compound similar to Bednorz and Muller's to -54 degrees F., high enough to use cheap liquid nitrogen as a refrigerant, and another IBM lab in Yorktown Heights, New York, pushed current- carrying capacity up to commercially useful levels. While some difficulties have yet to be resolved -- mainly the brittleness of the material -- scientists agree that Bednorz and Muller's basic compound could well make possible the most significant advance in electronics, and perhaps other industries, since scientists at AT&T's Bell Laboratories invented the transistor in 1947. 

The intellectual development of the man who set off the superconductivity revolution began with a ham radio. Fascinated by the radio's electronics, the teenage Muller wanted to become an electrical engineer. A high school teacher encouraged him to go into physics, where he could also study electricity. (The radio was confiscated just before the end of World War II as a suspected spy apparatus.) 

After getting his Ph.D. in physics from ETH, Muller went to work in 1959 as a project manager at the Geneva lab of the Battelle Memorial Institute, a U.S. research foundation. He showed a knack for management. ''You were like a little king, you were,'' Muller says wryly. In 1963 he joined IBM's Zurich lab, where he again showed managing talent, helping to hire Binnig, for example, after a single 15-minute conversation. 

BUT MULLER isn't all brains and business. He has been an avid skier since age 7 and an amateur photographer since he was 11. Married for 32 years, he and his wife, Ingeborg, the sister of an ETH colleague, have two grown children, a dentist son and a daughter who is a kindergarten teacher. Muller loves to drive with dispatch along the winding mountain roads between his suburban Zurich home and the IBM lab. When he has time, he plays grease monkey underneath his 1979 Daimler Double-Six and a 1975 Plymouth Valiant, both burgundy colored. 

Bednorz also loves to fix cars, another expression of what Muller calls ''his gift for handling materials.'' Working on his doctorate at ETH, Bednorz astonished his colleagues with his ability to improvise equipment from spare parts in the lab, according to Herman Wuest, a friend and fellow ETH researcher. He showed the same facility with a convertible 1953 Fiat Topolino, although friends joke that it is probably the world's most expensive car for all the work and new parts he has put into it. 

Above all, his colleagues were taken with Bednorz's sunny and self-effacing personality, says Hanns Arend, the materials scientist who supervised Bednorz's Ph.D. ''The people who lust for the Nobel Prize, they don't get it,'' says Arend. ''They are horrible people. They just want to climb up on the shoulders of their colleagues. Bednorz was never like that.'' His pleasures remain simple, says Wuest. Bednorz loves to cook Chinese and German food for his friends. He and his girlfriend, a manager at a Swiss watch company, like to go hiking in the Alps, where they drink wine and cook sausages. 

Bednorz and Muller have been elated and dismayed by the hoopla surrounding their Nobel Prize. Bednorz, especially, was stalked by the aggressive German press for photographs and interviews. Muller was lucky enough to be out of town during the initial hubbub. Says Bertram Batlogg, Muller's friend and a top physicist at Bell Labs: ''Alex is weighed down by the burden of winning the Nobel Prize. More people listen to his words and take them as God-given.'' Explains Muller: ''I want to avoid people believing that now that you have understood superconductivity, you know everything about everything.'' 

Still, says Muller, ''I am astonished what our creation has wrought.'' Eventually the fruits of his and Bednorz's work could astonish the world. 

ILLUSTRATION: portrait CAPTION: K. Alex Muller and J. Georg Bednorz. 


Document fortu00020020328dk14003jf


More Like This

 Article 9 *******************   


THE GOOD NEWS ABOUT U.S. R&D. (INCLUDES ADDITIONAL ARTICLES ON 3 MAIN TYPES OF U.S. RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS: GOVERNMENT-OWNED, INDEPENDENT AND UNIVERSITY) (TECHNOLOGY) 

By Stuart Gannes 
5,463 words 
1 February 1988
Fortune 
48 
English
Copyright Time Inc. 1988 

SCIENCE BESPEAKS power, both military and economic. The U.S. has long had the most productive scientific establishment in the world: Since the explosion of the first atomic bomb in the New Mexico desert proclaimed American dominance for good or ill, the work of U.S. researchers has transformed the lives of millions with a cornucopia of breakthroughs from wonder drugs to computers to video recorders. Now global commercial competition and the trade deficit have produced greater alarm about U.S. primacy in science and technology than at any time since the Soviets launched the Sputnik satellite in 1957. 

Americans are better off than they may think -- at least so far. It is not chauvinistic but simply realistic to note that the U.S. remains the world's leading producer of basic research: -- Americans write 35% of all scientific and technical articles published. -- U.S. researchers get more patents than the rest of the world combined. -- Since World War II, 127 American scientists have won the Nobel Prize, compared with 98 Europeans and five Japanese. -- Federal research facilities such as the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Energy labs at Los Alamos, New Mexico, and Livermore, California, are doing pioneering research in theoretical physics, molecular biology, and computer science. -- Independent research institutes like Rockefeller University in New York and Massachusetts's Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution are leaders in their specialties. -- The 100 or so U.S. research universities, which perform more than 60% of the nation's basic research, are unequaled. Says Erich Bloch, director of the National Science Foundation: ''It's no surprise that our universities draw students from all over the world and attract investment from foreign companies. In the competitive educational market, they deliver the best product.'' 

Even so, the U.S. no longer enjoys the commanding position it had in the decade after Sputnik. Led by Japan and to a lesser extent West Germany, the rest of the world is catching up. In a few areas -- robotics, for example -- the competition has surpassed the U.S. in discovering and exploiting new knowledge. Every industrial nation recognizes that success in fiercely competitive global markets depends on building an edge in science and technology. As precision robots and digital control systems take over the factory floor, most manufacturing is becoming more science-based. In high-growth sectors, such as semiconductors, synthetic materials, and biotechnology, access to inexpensive labor and raw materials like coal and iron ore no longer matters as much as access to knowledge. 

Twenty years ago the U.S. would almost certainly have been the first to take advantage of a development like the discovery of new superconducting ceramics. Today Japanese researchers are determined to grab that honor. Says Daniel S. Greenberg, editor of the Washington newsletter Science & Government Report: ''What's rocking our country is an attack -- and it's not coming from the Soviet Union. It's coming from the Japanese, who are turning their good minds and ample resources to basic research. They openly acknowledge that they're plunging into basic science because they've pretty well exploited the Western pool of knowledge on which they've long depended.'' 

Amid growing demands that science be harnessed to strengthen the economy, Americans are wrestling with some tough questions about U.S. basic research priorities: Should the government push ahead with megaprojects like building the superconducting supercollider, the world's largest atom smasher (latest price tag: $5.3 billion), and deciphering the entire human genetic code (another $3 billion)? How can the U.S. ensure that a steady flow of talented youngsters -- from high school to the graduate level -- fills the research training pipeline and meets the work force needs of an increasingly technological economy? What roles should universities, government laboratories, and companies play in basic research? 

LAST YEAR the U.S. spent some $123 billion on research and development, with government and industry contributing nearly equal amounts. In basic research -- the pursuit of new knowledge, as opposed to the development of actual products -- spending amounted to about $15 billion. The federal government anted up nearly two-thirds of that; corporations contributed another $3 billion, and the rest came from individual states and from such nonprofit institutions as the Guggenheim Foundation and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. 

Despite constraints on federal spending, support for basic research in the U.S. is on the upswing. Over the past decade, government appropriations rose 60% in constant dollars. Contributions from industry for the same period grew even faster, by nearly 70%, following nine years in which industrial spending for basic research fell at an average annual rate of 2.3%. 

But in the same period, total German spending doubled and Japanese outlays tripled. Japan, not previously renowned for basic research, now devotes to it 13% of total R&D spending, a slightly greater proportion than the U.S., where 12.2% goes for that purpose. The number of citations of Japanese research in the world's scientific journals has risen 25% in the past decade. The U.S. still ranks first by a wide margin, but its lead over the Japanese is diminishing. 

West Germany epitomizes the new European commitment to basic science. As a percentage of GNP, the West Germans spend as much on total R&D as the U.S. But an impressive 22% of their R&D budget goes to basic research, and they publish twice as many articles in scientific journals per researcher as the rest of the world. 

COMPETITION IN basic research benefits all humankind in many ways. The rapid spread of information throughout the internationally minded academic community virtually guarantees that. Reports of the new superconducting materials, for example, circled the globe in a matter of days. Moreover, in many areas of pure science such as astronomy and particle physics, investigators often speak of satisfying their own curiosity, or seeking to find the beauty in the natural order. Prosperous countries subsidize such research out of a desire to add to the sum total of knowledge -- and perhaps pick up a Nobel Prize or two in the process. Giant corporations like IBM a nd AT&T often support pure science for the same reason -- although AT&T's celebrated Bell Labs, where vice president Arno Penzias directs a vast research staff that includes 3,430 Ph.D.s, has become more result-oriented since the breakup of Ma Bell (see following story). 

Like AT&T's present managers, most Congressmen support basic research because they consider it a good investment. They appropriate money in the hope that scientists will discover something economically beneficial. Lyndon Johnson was fond of asking his science advisers, ''Tell me what science can do for grandma.'' Massive research undertakings often do unforeseen things for grandma - - or at least for companies she may own stock in: U.S. military research on high strength materials in the 1960s provided a major boost to the aerospace industry, and a decade later President Nixon's war on cancer led to breakthroughs that spurred the growth of biotech companies. 

Despite intense pressure to cut the deficit, the 1988 U.S. budget includes increases for most of the basic research arms of the government -- the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health as well as the Pentagon. Says William D. Carey, former chief of the American Association for the Advancement of Science: ''There isn't a better climate than economic competition to bring about a national policy commitment to widely based research and development.'' 

Developing innovative research programs is a specialty of the NSF's Bloch, who was a vice president at IBM before he joined the government. An early initiative: creating five national supercomputing centers, now up and running. Already some 6,000 researchers are using the powerful machines on 2,000 separate projects ranging from molecular biology simulations to astrophysics. 

OVER THE PAST three years Bloch has also opened 14 engineering research centers devoted to basic research on emerging technologies. The center at the University of California at Santa Barbara, for example, is devoted to robotics and precision manufacturing systems. A second NSF-sponsored group at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh is developing computer software to help solve manufacturing design problems. Says Bloch: ''These areas require just as much basic research as certain areas of physics. There is no book on robotics or manufacturing design that you can look up your answers in.'' Since Bloch suggested last year that the research center concept be extended to pure science, the NSF has been flooded with more than 700 Science and Technology Center proposals from universities across the country. 

More and more, American corporations are picking up the scent. Though industry contributions for basic research at universities waned in the 1970s, the connections between science and industrial innovation are becoming so inescapable that hundreds of companies are reaching out to universities again. Corporations spent $670 million on university research last year, up from $235 million in 1980. They now pay for 8% of all university research in science and technology -- about the same as in the 1960s. Equipment donations are up too: In 1985 computer manufacturers contributed $74 million worth of products. 

Many U.S. companies still appear ill at ease on campus. At MIT, for example, where corporate- sponsored research totaled $38 million last year, professors complain that Japanese companies often are better at developing relationships with researchers than American companies are. Says associate provost Kenneth Smith: ''The Japanese company usually sends one of its staff members here as a visiting scientist. The person will be absolutely first rate and makes a real contribution to the project. Normally the U.S. company doesn't send anyone. It just waits for the report.'' 

Although President Reagan and Congress are both committed to increased support for basic research, nobody in Washington can agree on what the priorities should be. This year Congress will be looking at a full plate of multibillion-dollar megaprojects; in addition to the superconducting supercollider and the proposal for deciphering the human genetic code, they include a $2 billion plan to study changes in the global environment. Moreover, the President favors a number of other big-ticket proposals -- among them a $13 billion manned space station, a $3 billion-plus hypersonic Orient Express space plane -- and, of course, the Strategic Defense Initiative. Reagan ''has never met a big high-tech project he didn't like,'' says Greenberg of Science & Government Report. 

UNFORTUNATELY, the flood of new proposals comes at a time when America's scientific work force faces serious shortages. The number of U.S. undergraduates taking degrees in the so-called hard sciences -- mainly physics, chemistry, and mathematics -- is steadily dropping. Equally distressing: Fewer straight-A high school students are opting for science and engineering. Says David Packard, co-founder of Hewlett-Packard and a former deputy secretary of defense: ''This is the most serious problem facing basic research. If we are going to be competitive, both commercially and militarily, we have to educate enough scientists and engineers to meet future needs of the country.'' 

The disappearance of American graduate students from advanced technical fields shocks university administrators. About 55% of the Ph.D.s in engineering granted in the U.S. go to foreigners, as do close to 40% in physics. In 1970, U.S. universities awarded 1,200 doctorates in mathematics; last year the total was 730, and barely half went to Americans. Says the NSF's Bloch: ''While Americans take degrees in law and business, foreigners are taking their place at the Ph.D. level in science. We're lucky to have them. A significant number remain in the U.S., or go to work for American companies abroad. But as opportunities overseas increase, we may find that the number of foreign students coming to our universities declines.'' 

At the NIH's world-famous Bethesda, Maryland, campus, about a third of the postdoctoral researchers come from foreign countries; about one-third of those are Japanese. Says Joram Piatigorsky, who heads a lab at the National Eye Institute: ''They're very good, hard-working scientists. They come over here and work 60 hours a week and think they are on vacation. I've heard it said that if you really want to get something done, hire a Japanese researcher. They just sit there and work and work and work.'' 

Many educators find it incredible that so few American students are attracted to science, especially with employment beckoning everywhere. Jobs in U.S. science and technology are increasing three times faster than the GNP and twice as fast as total professional employment. The demand for people with scientific skills can only rise further as the modern, knowledge-based economy continues to develop. For one small example, listen to Charles Hollister, dean at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution: ''There is just an enormous number of good jobs available. We go to major meetings with a butterfly net. Last year ten American oceano graphic institutes were competing for a dozen qualified applicants. Each of us could have easily hired five of them.'' 

FASCINATING new areas of research at the fringes of existing disciplines are creating additional job opportunities. Computer scientists are working in physics, chemists are helping resolve problems in molecular biology, materials experts are revolutionizing semiconductor design. Says Joseph E. Rall, a deputy director of the NIH: ''Don't kids realize that doing science is fun? I can't imagine a bright kid not wanting to get into it.'' Adds Woods Hole's Hollister: ''Even if you don't make a lot of money in basic research, you have a lot of fun following your curiosity. What do really rich people do? They go out and buy a yacht and stick gadgets onto it. But you would have to be a billionaire to afford the gadgets we have at our disposal. When Bob Ballard found the Titanic, he was using more than $500 million worth of toys.'' 

Some scientific fields are hampered by prosaic problems. In biology, low pay is a major issue. At the NIH, for example, Ph.D.s start at only $18,000 a year. Inadequate university research facilities are common. Academics who abandon basic research for applied jobs in industry often cite substandard equipment as a major reason for leaving. Says Roland Schmitt, for years chief scientist at General Electric: ''While great discoveries may still result from using simple paper and pencil, we cannot do microelectronics research without clean rooms with air 100,000 times as pure as a normal room, and with floors virtually free from vibration. We cannot do chemistry and biology without special ventilation and waste disposal facilities. We cannot do large- scale computation without computer rooms that have carefully controlled environments.'' 

The situation in high schools is even worse. Many school districts lack not only adequate facilities but adequate -- much less capable -- science teachers. Says David LGoodstein, vice provost of Caltech: ''The training of high school physics teachers is abysmal. Out of about 25,000 high schools in the country, only about 2,000 have qualified teachers.'' (For a view of how U.S. education can be improved, see Special Report.) 

Remedying these problems will require big money. One logical source, says Packard, is the Pentagon, which he believes should devote more of its huge R&D budget to universities, where basic research and training new scientists come together. Says Packard: ''This Administration pushed for a big buildup in defense expenditures, and today the Pentagon is utilizing a large proportion of the scientific and engineering talent in this country. But it is not paying its fair share of the cost of those scientists. This is not only shortsighted, it is very stupid.'' Although defense allocations account for more than 70% of the federal research budget, only 2.5% of that money goes to basic research. Twenty years ago twice that proportion did. Packard thinks that another $2 billion to $3 billion a year from the Pentagon for basic research at universities would restore the right balance. 

For decades, defense research won civilian support in part because of the fallout it produced for the rest of the economy. Now, says the NSF's Bloch, ''we should be asking ourselves how much fallout there is from civilian basic research to the defense sector. There's a hell of a lot more in that direction. That wasn't true 20 to 30 years ago, but it is today.'' 

The government is beginning to devote more funds to science education. When Congress finally passed this year's budget in December, it included $139.2 million for science and engineering education -- an increase of 40.6%, and $24.2 million more than the NSF requested. Another $85 million was appropriated for the Pentagon's University Research Initiative, a new program designed to foster basic interdisciplinary research. 

BUT AT A TIME when cutting the budget is a top priority in Washington, Congress should take a harder look at big science proposals such as building the superconducting supercollider and deciphering the human genetic code. Says Bloch: ''It's all right to have big goals. I'm for the supercollider, but the question today is one of priorities. Can we afford everything we want to do? We need to internationalize some of these projects because other countries can't afford them either. Providing funds for education may be a less visible goal than building an atom smasher or a space plane, but it is just as real.'' 

Can basic research be planned to fit national economic priorities? More than 30 years ago, the launch of a 184-pound satellite touched off an explosion of government support for science education in America. Today worldwide competition in science and high technology is forcing the U.S. to face the same issues again. This time the race will not end with a triumphant walk on the moon, as it did in 1969. But it could lead to something less glamorous and more enduring: a strong and sustained improvement in U.S. industrial competitiveness. 

WORKING ON, IN, AND UNDER THE SEAS This box and those on the following pages describe leading examples of the three main types of nonprofit U.S. research institutions -- independent, university, and government-owned. 

In the 19th century, the seafaring town of Falmouth, Massachusetts, was home port for dozens of Yankee whaling ships. Today the research vessels of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution tie up in the same snug harbor when they are not roaming the world's oceans. Instead of whale oil, they return loaded with core samples of the sea floor and reams of computer data on phenomena like the seismic characteristics of the earth's crust and the movement of deep ocean currents. 

With a budget of some $50 million, world-renowned Woods Hole is one of the largest independent nonprofit institutions in the U.S. devoted to basic research. Some 80% of its operating funds come from government agencies, including the National Science Foundation, the Office of Naval Research, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Woods Hole's 450 scientists study everything from photochemistry to geophysics. 

Oceanography thrives on the collection of data, and Woods Hole is a world leader in developing sophisticated new equipment to explore the mysteries of the marine environment. The institution's most famous creations are deep-diving submarines, which Charles Hollister, dean of graduate studies, calls ''spacecraft for inner space.'' Using these vessels, scientists have made some of the most unexpected discoveries in modern science. In 1977, for example, the tiny sub Alvin was exploring hydrothermal vents 8,000 feet deep off the coast of Ecuador when it chanced upon huge beds of giant red-tipped worms -- a previously unknown life form that thrives on sulfurous jets that spurt up through cracks in the sea floor. Some researchers believe that bacteria found in these creatures could digest many industrial pollutants. 

Woods Hole scientists became media stars in 1985, when Argo, an experimental underwater surveying robot built by marine geologist Robert D. Ballard, came across the wreck of the Titanic lying 12,500 feet under the Atlantic. A year later, Ballard returned to the site with Jason Jr., a remote-controlled robot that roamed the liner's decks, snapping pictures like a tourist at the Parthenon. 

Along with remote-controlled devices, Woods Hole has developed a fantastic array of other electronic equipment, including automatic sensor buoys that can dive to any depth, collect data, and transmit the information hundreds of miles by acoustic signals to undersea listening stations. They will be deployed on the latest research initiative: a multimillion-dollar proposal to develop a model of ocean currents so changes that affect climate can be recognized and monitored. Says Hollister: ''We're getting away from the Cousteau syndrome, which gives the impression that oceanography means sitting on the deck of Calypso drinking Beaujolais. We want to encourage the Ballard syndrome, which says that oceanography means high-tech research, using the latest in robotics and remote-sensing equipment. It is the risk takers in science who achieve the greatest breakthroughs.'' 

THE BIG LITTLE HIGH-TECH IDEA FACTORY With low-rise stucco buildings and lushly landscaped lawns, the Pasadena grounds of the California Institute of Technology hark back to an earlier era, before glass and concrete architecture changed the look of American universities. But this old-fashioned jewel of a campus is a hotbed of high tech. Although Caltech has only 265 professors and fewer than 2,000 students, as a center for leading-edge research -- in molecular biology, geology, astronomy, and space exploration, among other fields -- it plays a giant role in American science. 

Last year Caltech's research budget topped $61 million. Some 85% came from federal agencies such as the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health; corporations, private foundations, individual donors, and endowment income contributed the rest. The university also runs NASA's $850-million-a-year Jet Propulsion Lab, which leads the world in scouting the solar system with unmanned spacecraft. 

By staying small and selective, Caltech encourages a healthy intimacy among its faculty and students. Professors lecture in jeans and sneakers, and the cultivated informality breeds the profusion of high-tech student pranks that the school is famous for. Outstanding example: the riggin g of the 1984 Rose Bowl scoreboard to show a victory by Caltech's ineffectual football team over rival MIT. More important, the easy give-and-take helps induce both students and faculty to study problems that cross the traditional boundaries of scientific disciplines. 

A notable case is Caltech's effort to build a totally new type of computer with circuits that are patterned after the neural networks of animals. Under the direction of biophysicist John Hopfield, the project draws on neurobiologists, computer scientists, engineers, integrated circuit specialists, physicists, and mathematicians. Says Hopfield: ''Modern digital computers are latecomers to the world of computation. Biological computers -- the brain and nervous system of animals and human beings -- have existed for millions of years, and they are marvelously effective in processing sensory information. This suggests that it may be possible to attain similar capabilities in artificial devices.'' 

Caltech chemists, engineers, and computer programmers have also teamed with biologist Leroy Hood to design and build a machine that decodes the structure of DNA molecules -- a crucial step in analyzing the function of genes. With a $50 million gift from the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, Caltech is building an institute devoted to multidisciplinary research in biology and chemistry. Says director Harry Gray: ''It will allow us to undertake important projects that don't fit neatly in traditional academic research groups.'' 

Both aspiring and established scientists find it hard to resist the combination of a palm-bordered campus and a certain bratty precociousness, so Caltech usually gets its pick of professors and students. Faculty and alumni have bagged 21 Nobel Prizes. An astounding two-thirds of the undergraduates score a perfect 800 on the math section of their SATs. It's not surprising that a higher percentage of Caltech graduates go on to earn Ph.D.s in science and engineering than at any other university in the U.S. 

SUPERBOMBS AND SUPERCONDUCTORS The birthplace of the atomic bomb, Los Alamos National Laboratory, perches atop a barren mile-high mesa in the New Mexico desert northwest of Santa Fe. The lab was conceived as a top-secret military installation early in World War II, and it still has as its primary mission the design and assembly of nuclear weapons. It employs about 8,000 people; the scientific staff numbers 3,100, half of them Ph.D.s. Los Alamos is operated by the University of California for the Department of Energy, which supervises all U.S. nuclear research. Last year the government spent $845 million to keep the place running. 

Scientists who work on projects ''outside the fence'' -- as nonclassified research is called there -- study such thoroughly civilian subjects as fusion power, superconductivity, astrophysics, molecular chemistry, and theoretical biophysics. Los Alamos is a world center for the new science of chaos, a growing collection of interdisciplinary studies that look for order in natural phenomena -- turbulent weather patterns, for instance -- that until recently seemed random or erratic. 

What links many of these fields is the need for high-powered computers, where Los Alamos is second to none. In 1976, the lab took delivery of the first Cray supercomputer. Today, with nine supercomputers, Los Alamos has the world's largest scientific computer system. The multimillion- dollar machines' original job was to simulate thermonuclear explosions, but now they help solve problems in every area of basic science that the lab is engaged in. Says Karl-Heinz Winkler, a Los Alamos physicist who uses supercomputers in his studies of fluid dynamics: ''It is now possible to simulate and visualize the complex evolution of fluid flow by doing computer experiments. They have emerged as a third method for investigating nature, complementing traditional experimental and theoretical work.'' 

The other common scientific theme at Los Alamos is energy research. Here director Siegfried S. Hecker believes the lab can make an important contribution to economic competitiveness. In the fast- moving field of superconductivity, the discovery of a new class of materials that work near ordinary temperatures has set off an international race to develop commercial applications. Even before the latest breakthroughs, the lab's staff published more than 150 scientific papers in the field. Los Alamos also has a wealth of experience with conventional supercold superconductors. One example: It designed the superconducting magnetic energy storage system for a demonstration of electric power transmission in Bonneville, Washington. 

Says Hecker: ''Since the Manhattan Project, the tradition of this lab has been to get the best minds in the country to think about the most important problems. The race for commercialization is on. It will not wait for a better fundamental understanding of superconductivity theory or for new materials. We want to be where the action is.'' 

Los Alamos scientists also hope to form new relationships with industry to distribute the results of their superconductivity research. ''We're used to big development projects,'' Hecker adds. ''For years the military has been our biggest customer. Working with private companies is the next step.'' 

No other corporate R&D operation matches Bell Labs in size and scope, but some do as impressive a job in a number of areas. IBM's research division -- often referred to by connoisseurs as ''the other lab'' -- has been coming along fast and boasts four Nobel Prize winners on its staff, vs. Bell Labs' seven. GE is third, with two Nobelists. Another big corporate research player, Du Pont, got its first Nobel in December. 

In basic research the best labs all offer their people considerable freedom and diversity in scientific activity. All compete for the same young scientists, but treat them somewhat differently once hired. While Bell Labs offers minimum supervision and encourages individual or two- 

or three-man efforts, IBM researchers at the central lab in Yorktown Heights, New York, typically work in larger teams on specific projects and are more closely supervised. 

NEVERTHELESS, IBM must be doing something right, especially at its lab in Zurich. Two researchers there shared a Nobel Prize in 1986 for inventing the scanning tunneling microscope, and two others won a 1987 Nobel for discovering that superconductivity can occur at temperatures much higher than earlier recorded -- thus setting off the current boom in that field. 

Of the 3,000-employee IBM worldwide research team, close to a third do basic research. As Ralph E. Gomory, senior vice president for science and technology, explains it, basic research at IBM consists of two parts. One connects closely to product development; the other ''faces into the world of science, the university world, the world of the American Physical Society.'' Thus, an IBM astrophysicist can be doing highly theoretical work without visible connection to the business, apart from his use of computers. 

Besides the work of the recent Nobelists, IBM's research contributions include the computer languages Fortran and APL; relational database software, which allows fast access to related items; and reduced instruction set chips (RISC), which permit faster computation. IBM's current work concentrates on computation, chips, and materials. In all, about 10% of corporate sales go to R&D; o f the $5.2 billion companywide R&D budget last year, some 10% went for research. 

GE, which maintains a big 2,000-employee R&D lab in Schenectady, New York, is proud of introducing advanced computerized tomography (CT) scanners and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imagers. Both resulted from close interaction between the Schenectady lab and GE's medical systems division. 

That interaction didn't just happen. Back in 1974 Walter L. Robb, now senior vice president for corporate R&D, took command of the company's medical systems group in Milwaukee. Primitive CT scanners were just appearing on the market, threatening GE's conventional X-ray machines. Robb recalls asking the manager of engineering if he had conferred with the R&D center. The manager replied: ''Hell, no -- we never talk to them.'' Robb suggested they go back to Schenectady to see what ideas for more advanced scanners were available. The ensuing collaboration eventually helped create a $400-million-a-year business for GE. 

The Schenectady center sometimes practices what Robb's predecessor, Roland W. Schmitt, calls ''chuck wagon technology -- where you cook it up in your lab, dish it out, and yell, 'Come and get it!' That just doesn't work.'' Schmitt married technological ideas to market needs by bringing marketing specialists into the development organization. Among the results: important new products like an adjustable-speed motor controlled by semiconductor chips and a programmable controller for factory automation. 

In 1986 GE spent $2.9 billion on companywide R&D. Managers won't reveal the budget of the Schenectady center but say basic research accounts for 5% of it; 45% goes for applied research and 50% for development. GE's past breakthroughs include the first commercially feasible process for making synthetic industrial diamonds, development of high-performance plastics, and the discovery of the superconductive tunneling phenomenon, which brought a GE scientist a Nobel Prize. Key research thrusts today include work on materials such as plastics, metals, alloys, and composites, along with artificial intelligence and medical diagnostics, advanced electronics, and design of next-generation jet engines. 

Change is afoot at Du Pont's campuslike Experimental Station on the outskirts of Wilmington, Delaware, which houses 2,300 researchers. The emphasis is shifting from bulk polymers and fibers, the revenue-producing mainstays of recent decades, to electronics, life sciences, agriculture, and materials for such new technologies as superconductivity. Says Richard K. Quisenberry, director of research: ''Our strengths are in chemistry and materials, and they are growing in biology. Our objective in the next few years is to strengthen our position in physics.'' 

LAST YEAR Du Pont spent $1.2 billion on R&D; 7% went for basic research. Total R&D spending amounted to 4.4% of sales. Some recent research accomplishments: development of a new, economical way to make hydrogen peroxide directly from hydrogen and oxygen, and a DNA sequencing machine that puts fluorescent tags on the different components of basic genetic material for easier identification in diagnostic and other work.-.B. 

ILLUSTRATION: photograph - graph CAPTION: U.S. R&D spending keeps rising but U.S. share of world R&D - declines. 


Document fortu00020020328dk21003lq


More Like This

 Article 10 *******************   


WHERE THE NEXT FORTUNES WILL BE MADE; THE SECRET IS SPOTTING A MAJOR TREND AND THEN CLIMBING ABOARD AT JUST THE RIGHT MOMENT. 

By Brett Duval Fromson 
2,988 words 
5 December 1988
Fortune 
185 
English
Copyright Time Inc. 1988 

WHERE WILL the next great fortunes be created? The question, like what song the sirens sang, is difficult, but not beyond intelligent conjecture. History shows that each successive age has been characterized by a distinctive mode of wealth creation. Since the Industrial Revolution, the prevailing pattern has been that of the entrepreneur catching a major social, economic, or technological wave at just the right moment and riding it to enormous riches. 

Over the next few decades big money will be made by prescient individuals who seize on one of four overarching trends: -- Information as the new transformative resource, replacing energy. -- The aging of the population of the developed world. -- The emergence of tightly integrated regional economies, embracing several nations. -- The exploitation of new technologies. 

In the static economies of precapitalist days, attaining great wealth was a Hobbesian affair, the result of winning a zero-sum game. Behind most great fortunes there really was a great crime, often the appropriation of somebody else's assets -- as in a war -- or perhaps peculation. In first- century B.C. Rome, for example, conventional ways of achieving riches included extortion and the bribery of public officials. The triumvir Crassus, from whose name we get the modern word ''crass,'' operated the first fire brigade in the imperial city. If a citizen whose house was aflame didn't pay an obscene price, Crassus would tell his men to let the blaze burn. The next day the enterprising Roman would try to buy whatever remained, at fire-sale prices. 

Wealth creation as we know it today emerged in 18th-century England, with the first Industrial Revolution. Gradually royal monopolies on just about every branch of commerce were swept away, under pressure from men and machines who could produce better products more efficiently. The eminent business historian Alfred Chandler, a professor at the Harvard business school, calls these modern entrepreneurs first movers: Even if they didn't invent a new technology -- the steam engine, say, or the power loom -- they had the vision to organize and dominate emerging industries in those initial stages with the highest growth and profitability. 

THE PEOPLE who amassed great fortunes in the past few years were still first movers. In the U.S. they found fertile soil in finance, computers, real estate, and retailing. Again, the critical factor was not necessarily invention, but some degree of foresight and the ability to adapt quickly to evolving conditions. Messrs. Kohlberg, Kravis, and Roberts did not invent the leveraged buyout, nor Michael Milken the junk bond. But these financiers did see potential uses for the devices that others didn't, and they made the new forms of financing ubiquitous. Software whiz Bill Gates built a $1.4 billion fortune not just by creating another operating system for personal computers, but by seeing to it that his system became the standard in an industry about to take off. Urban landlords such as New York's Harry Helmsley and Donald Trump weren't scared off by predictions that the center city was finished, and made pots of money when Manhattan came roaring back. In retailing Sam Walton amassed some $7.4 billion from the realization that theretofore ignored small- town shoppers had become affluent enough to buy brand-name goods in volume at discount prices. 

Where should the first movers of today be looking? Into the morning, not the dawn, of the information age, for starters. Daniel Bell, professor of sociology at Harvard University, says, ''Codification of theoretical knowledge is replacing capital and energy as the primary transforming resource.'' He cites electricity, oil, and nuclear power as examples of ''transforming resources'' in industrial society. According to Bell's research, industries where knowledge represents the largest input to production -- as opposed to labor -- already dominate the U.S. economy. Think investment banking and software development, vs. old-line manufacturing. 

So far, excitement about making money with information has mostly fastened on two businesses, electronic databases and communications. Yes, the airline with the best reservation system can outgun competitors with its ability to manage scheduling, load factors, and a frequent-flier program. And yes, the telecommunications company with breakthrough technology in, say, digital data transmission stands to make a tidy sum in electronic mail or on-line database services. But this still leaves a lot of room for the individual entrepreneur in more mundane, less capital-intensive areas of information management. 

Like the business of getting some of this new information into people's heads. By almost every estimate, workers from the lowliest to the loftiest will need progressively higher levels of education and more frequent retraining to keep them up to date. Fortunately, new technologies, particularly computer and video technologies, are available to help. It all adds up to opportunity for any entrepreneur who can boost productivity in both teaching and learning. Paul Strassmann, a consultant and former vice president of Xerox, predicts that by the turn of the century, 25% of the gross national product of the U.S. will be spent on education and professional training, compared with 10% today. 

Steven P. Jobs, late of Apple Computer, apparently is eyeing this same trend. With the workstation from his new company, Next, he has taken dead aim at the university market. The experts predict, though, that there may be even more money to be made in job training. In the future workers may need to be intellectually retooled every year, or even more frequently. If you're turning out monoclonal antibodies, you're going to have to find some way to get your production people the latest scientific information about genetic engineering, including the papers presented at that conference in Tokyo last week. 

This imperative extends even to the science -- art? -- of management. William Sahlman, an associate professor at the Harvard business school, sees glowing prospects for the entrepreneur who can help executives keep abreast of their craft, and not just through boring sessions in the classroom. No, imagine the hard-driving honcho at the end of the day, on his exercise bicycle or in the hot tub, after popping an instructional tape into his videocassette recorder. Later he can measure his progress with a diagnostic program on his home computer or participate in discussion on a computer network or videophone. Predicts Sahlman: ''The entrepreneur who can help put that instructional package together will add value and, by the way, make himself rich.'' 

In the new world of information, holding on to your intellectual property will be essential to reaping its benefits. A political stump speech, a computer software program, or a new financial formula -- each will have monetary value. New laws, both national and international, are probably needed to protect such intangibles. Donald Elliott, professor at Yale law school, foresees the equivalent of a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade for information, to prevent one nation's wealth from being unfairly appropriated by pirates abroad. 

The aging of the population in the developed world will present opportunities galore. By the year 2020 elderly Americans will number about 60 million, representing about 20% of the population. Already more interested in fitness than prior generations, baby-boomers are likely to look to medicine and technology for all sorts of magic to stave off or minimize the effects of aging. The current mania for health clubs is just the beginning. Tom Mandel, senior management consultant of SRI International in Menlo Park, California, says, ''People's demand for health care will be insatiable.'' 

Entrepreneurs who can provide inexpensive diagnostics and medicine to meet this growing appetite should be well rewarded by a society progressively more worried about the cost. Biotechnologists will deliver many new wonders. Expect disease-specific pharmaceuticals targeted ever more precisely at particular illnesses, such as multiple sclerosis or diabetes. And don't leave engineers out of the ranks of the potentially wealthy. Designers of the next generations of prostheses, artificial organs, and aids for the visually and hearing impaired can anticipate a voracious market. So, too, manufacturers of medical equipment. Mandel looks for the day when the aerobically fit oldster will drop by the club, jog a bit, go for a swim, and then get a full body scan by a fourth-generation magnetic resonance imaging system that will deliver -- ta-dah -- a complete physical report. Time to replace those hip joints again? 

This and other trends will influence a chameleonlike business that is as old as history and yet forever new. By nature a limited resource, real estate waxes and wanes in value depending on how preferences shift in response to large forces at play in society. As baby-boomers get older, for example, some will want to live closer to where they work. Why? Because commuters will face ever more crowded highways and because smoke-belching, earsplitting factories will become relics of our industrial past. Landlords who own commercial properties in predominantly residential areas and, conversely, residences in commercial areas should stand to benefit. Over the long term, the best play may be in owning real estate in up-and-coming university towns. These communities should benefit as a generation of college-educated retirees seek stimulating settings for their golden years and as entrepreneurs settle nearer centers of intelligence. Watch out, Williamstown, Massachusetts. 

WOULD-BE CREATORS of wealth should be monitoring another trend of global significance: the emergence of regional -- as opposed to national -- economies. The political opposition that the U.S.-Canada free-trade pact faces is but a cough in a hurricane blowing in the opposite direction. Neighboring countries are banding together as never before to compete more effectively. The Europeans have embarked on an ambitious plan for economic integration post-1992. The Japanese have launched their own attempt at hegemony in the Pacific, negotiating country by country with their neighbors South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore to achieve new ground rules on trade and competition. The U.S. has lowered barriers between itself and Mexico. Evidence already points inexorably to the ultimate rise of three great regional blocs -- the Western Pacific, the Americas, and Europe. 

The Pacific region has all the necessary ingredients for 3.5%-plus per year real economic growth: Japanese capital, world-class technology, and an increasingly skilled work force. Even a poor Asian nation such as Indonesia may prove fertile ground for someone interested in creating wealth. Indonesia? Yes, there is more to it than Bali's beaches and the oil fields outside Jakarta. 

Robert Hormats, vice chairman of international operations at Goldman Sachs investment bank, explains: ''The country has been remarkably stable since Suharto took over after the bloody coup d'etat in 1965. There is a big population, a big market, a reasonably educated middle class, a lot of oil.'' He looks for Indonesia to take over a share of the manufacturing now done by Korea and other more developed East Asian countries. In the process, those who anticipate change will get rich. This should come as no surprise. Throughout history, most of the great fortunes have been been made in newly industrializing countries. 

Within Europe the Mediterranean countries, especially Spain, seem promising sites for wealth creation. Spaniards have shown themselves surprisingly entrepreneurial and internationally minded after the stultifying years of General Franco. As one of the EEC's newest members, Spain also has a chance to expand into a host of new markets. 

William Johnston, a vice president of the Hudson Institute in Alexandria, Virginia, looks for Eastern and Western Europe to become more integrated and for the Easterners to benefit thereby. ''Historically,'' he says, ''Eastern Europeans are economically successful peoples who have been politically repressed.'' Any thawing of the cold war should hasten their chances to recover some of that success. 

Regionalization and the economic development of emerging nations will hasten the return of megaprojects, those high-risk feats of complex engineering and construction, after a hiatus of a few years. An increase in trade within regions would perforce require new energy, transportation, and distribution links. Someone will have to build new factories and roads in Indonesia if it becomes an exporter of manufactured goods. Someone will have to integrate and rebuild the energy grids of the U.S., Canada, and Mexico if the Western Hemisphere is to become a more efficient competitor in world markets. Someone will have to develop the high-tech industrial parks that are sure to go up in Spain. While the overall responsibility for such projects may fall to governments, plenty of money will be made by carrying out their plans. 

New technologies just lifting off will offer entrepreneurs a shot at out-of-this-world fortunes. Take space, for example. Three young businessmen are already using today's most advanced technology to make booster rockets and satellite-tracking systems for space missions. David Thompson, 34, Scott Webster, 36, and Bruce Ferguson, 34, pilot Orbital Sciences Corp. of Fairfax, Virginia. The private company's first product was a rocket that NASA astronauts will use to launch satellites into orbit from the space shuttle. Their latest, an air-launched booster called Pegasus, is being developed for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa) and commercial customers. It holds out the prospect of launching satellites from highflying airplanes. Six-year- old Orbital Sciences, already profitable, projects 1988 revenues in excess of $60 million. 

FOR A TRULY spectacular look ahead, consider the entrepreneurial possibilities inherent in molecular-scale machines capable of extracting gold from seawater or diamonds from egg yolks. This is nanotechnology, the 21st century's answer to alchemy. Theoretician K. Eric Drexler, a visiting scholar at Stanford University, is the leading champion of the new technology, which could build objects atom by atom. (''Nano'' means ''dwarf'' in Greek.) 

Drexler's idea is to create not just new molecules, but whole, visible structures composed of these molecules. The tiny machines -- akin to miniaturized robot arms -- would be provided with raw material from which they could build anything, including copies of themselves to hasten the production process. Every hour entire factories no larger than a grain of sand might produce billions of new assemblers. He cites enzymes that function as jigs and machine tools to shape large molecules as examples of nanomachines that exist in nature. 

Properly instructed by computer software -- the big challenge is figuring out just how -- nano- assemblers in short order could turn out just about anything that can be designed at a fraction of the current cost and of a structural integrity far superior to anything on the market today. In Drexler's vision these machines could swim in a vat of chemicals and fuel, and in a few days manufacture a roomful of computers or rocket engines. Or they might roam through your body destroying cancer cells. Manufacturing and engineering as we know them would become obsolete. 

Far-fetched? Perhaps, but then 20 years ago, who envisioned the possibility of designing and testi ng a new machine at a desktop engineering workstation? Extrapolating from recent developments in molecular biology and biochemistry, Drexler has been drawing blueprints for nanotechnology for over a decade. Marvin Minsky, a professor of computer science at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, writes in the foreword to Drexler's book Engines of Creation that Drexler ''has built on the sound est areas of present-day technical knowledge.'' Drexler predicts: ''Nanotechnology is probable within 30 years. It will make developing a room-temperature superconductor look trivial by comparison.'' The likeliest people to profit from nanotechnology? Software designers who will write the programs to tell the nanomachines what to produce. 

REPLACING the world's manufacturing with a new technology. Building superprojects to link nations together. Moving beyond the Industrial Revolution into the Age of Information. They sound like tall orders. Too much for the individual entrepreneur? Work that only governments or giant corporations can do? Don't be too sure. Says Harvard's Sahlman: ''As long as the entrepreneur relentlessly pursues new opportunities without regard to the resources he currently controls, he will always have the best shot at creating the most wealth.'' A recent study of 6,000 Harvard business school MBAs shows that 15 years or more after graduation, 25% of those who ran their own businesses were worth over $2.5 million, while only 12% of those employed by someone else were as affluent. 

Increasingly, though, the entrepreneur will have to combine his wit and willingness to work with a good bit of managerial sophistication. The main reason? Increased competition. The proliferation of new companies in the past 15 years signals an abundance of rivals in just about every industry for years to come. To survive, the biggest companies will have to get smart and keep getting smarter. Foreign corporations will continue to invade others' home markets. Concludes Sahlman: ''Superior management will be at a huge premium in the next 50 years.'' 

The growing importance of managerial skill is good news for senior executives who should be able to command chunks of equity in any company that covets their talents. A forerunner of the emerging entrepreneur-manager may be James Tappan, a former group vice president at General Foods. He recently received a 10% equity stake in a new $100 million partnership established to buy and run existing consumer products companies. This in return for managing whatever operations are acquired. While not as great as the fortune of a John D. Rockefeller, $10 million, and the prospect of more to come, should keep the wolf from the door, at least until the 21st century. 

WEALTH CREATION IN HISTORY At each stage of human progress, man has hit on new ways of amassing great riches. Before the Industrial Revolution, the usual tactic was to seize someone else's possessions. Then technology made efficient manufacturing and mass markets possible. 

ILLUSTRATION: photograph - chart CAPTION: Wealth creation in history. 


Document fortu00020020328dkc5004ad


More Like This

 Article 11 *******************   


A QUANTUM LEAP IN ELECTRONICS; A FAMOUS AND PARADOXICAL THEORY OF MODERN PHYSICS MAY SET OFF A TRANSFORMATION AS PROFOUND AS THE ONE BEGUN 40 YEARS AGO WHEN TRANSISTORS REPLACED VACUUM TUBES. (INCLUDES ADDITIONAL ARTICLE ON THE USE OF QUANTUM THEORY IN LASERS AND TRANSISTORS) 

By Gene Bylinsky 
2,784 words 
30 January 1989
Fortune 
113 
English
Copyright Time Inc. 1989 

WHAT you're seeing in the photograph at right is a practical embodiment of one of man's most brilliant intellectual achievements. The tiny semiconductor laser in the palm of the scientist's hand is as powerful as its big conventional cousin below it. Inside the smaller laser is a "quantum well," an unimaginably minuscule trap that holds electrons and makes them yield light with an efficiency that standard lasers cannot approach. Quantum wells -- man-made structures so tiny that a million of them would fit into the period at the end of this sentence -- are the key to new and expanding applications of quantum mechanics. Many scientists believe that quantum mechanics is about to set off a transformation of everyday electronics as profound as the one begun 40 years ago when the transistor replaced the vacuum tube. 

The quantum-mechanical view of matter at its most basic level, also called quantum physics or quantum theory, was developed by such giants of 20th-century science as Albert Einstein, Louis de Broglie, and Werner Heisenberg. They led a revolution that overthrew the clockwork certainties of Newtonian physics, replacing them with a through-the-looking-glass world where light and electrons behave sometimes like particles, sometimes like waves -- and in which, according to Heisenberg's famous uncertainty principle, you can know where a particle is or how fast it is moving, but never both at the same time. 

Quantum applications are emerging partly because they look like the most promising way to keep making progress in electronics. The remarkable march of silicon-chip technology could come to a sudden halt within a decade or less. As conventional transistors and other components on a chip get smaller and smaller, all kinds of undesirable side effects begin to arise -- from overheating to electronic cross talk much like that on closely spaced telephone wires, when conversations start "leaking" from one wire to another. But the shift to commercial-scale quantum electronics raises its own challenges for U.S. companies: The tiny devices will be extraordinarily difficult to mass-produce. And competitors from Japan, expert in manufacturing and always eager to pluck the fruits of technological advance, are intent on dominating the technology. 

Quantum mechanics unveiled a new shimmery image of the atom where wondrous things can happen. For example, inside those tiny quantum wells, electrons can be made to resonate like sound inside an organ pipe. For reasons related to the fact that electrons have discrete energy levels that change with their distance from an atomic nucleus, they can be put to work to generate laser beams of desired colors or to run new kinds of transistors (see box). 

The invention of transistors brought the power of digital electronics to the office, the factory floor, and the home. The quantum revolution now brewing could represent an even more remarkable leap forward: Because they are so small, quantum devices are spectacularly quicker and require far less power than today's transistors and lasers. Quantum transistors could be 1/100th the size of their conventional counterparts and run 1,000 times faster. And the quantum revolution could produce a plethora of optical detectors, switches, and other devices in addition to unlocking at last the full potential of lasers. Powerful new semiconductor lasers that you could hold in your hand would produce beams strong enough to slice steel. 

STIMULATED BY such astonishing possibilities, scientists in the U.S., Europe, and especially Japan are working hard to make quantum electronics a commercial reality. In laboratories on three continents, arrays of high-tech machines like the one in the photograph on the next page bombard wafers of exotic materials such as gallium arsenide with hyperthin layers of other elements to form quantum wells. Already the first products are reaching the market. The most striking example: the quantum-well laser shown in the opening photoraph, made by Spectra Diode Laboratories Inc. of San Jose, California, a joint venture of Spectra Physics and Xerox. 

Eventually, when it can be produced inexpensively enough, the quantum-well laser will replace the simpler semiconductor lasers used to play compact disc recordings and to read and write on the new erasable optical memory disks (FORTUNE, January 2). Because of their intensity, the new lasers will quadruple the number of bits of data that can be recorded on and retrieved from those disks. Less powerful quantum-well lasers should finally make possible thin flat-panel TV screens; the lasers would be densely arrayed on the surface of the screen, powered by semiconductor chips behind them. Another surprising application: direct communication with submerged submarines, made feasible because the new laser is small enough to install aboard a space satellite and powerful enough to send messages to the ocean depths. 

AT THE HUGHES Aircraft research labs, perched spectacularly on a hill overlooking the Pacific in Malibu, California, a new type of detector using quantum wells is under development. The devices are extremely sensitive and can be packed together in extraordinary densities. That allows them to capture light and heat with unprecedented efficiency, and they could be much cheaper to build than existing detectors. From an orbiting satellite, they will be able to sense a band of guerrillas or drug traffickers hiding in the jungle, simply by recognizing the temperature difference between people and their surroundings. Like an enormously powerful electronic thermometer, they convert heat emitted at a great distance into telltale temperature readings. 

Hughes is also completing a sizable production facility for so-called high-electron mobility transistors (HEMTs), equipped with quantum wells, that will be ten times more efficient than devices available now. This will greatly increase the transistors' sensitivity, enabling them to pick up almost imperceptible electronic signals. Arthur N. Chester, director of the Malibu lab, predicts that HEMTs will make possible direct broadcast transmissions from satellites that could be received on tiny antennas "in your car, on top of your beanie, or in your wristwatch." With transmissions from satellites reaching every corner on earth, anyone could be reached anywhere. Unlike a user of cellular telephones, he would not have to be near a transmitter. GE is supplying NASA with a quantum sensor that will pick up the faint transmissions from the Voyager spacecraft when it moves past the edge of the solar system this year. Other quantum devices designed to speed up communication over optical fibers and enhance their capacity are under development at AT&T Bell Laboratories, Bellcore (the research arm of the Baby Bells), and elsewhere. 

Also moving closer to reality are quantum-well transistors, as different in concept from silicon transistors as silicon transistors are from vacuum tubes. The new transistors, for example, could become the heart of neural network computers that mimic the human brain. Texas Instruments has just surged ahead in this field with its December announcement that it has succeeded in constructing an experimental quantum-well transistor with critical dimensions 100 times smaller and potential operating speeds several thousand times faster than conventional transistors. George H. Heilmeier, TI's senior vice president and chief technical officer, foresees laptop supercomputers, memory devices the size of a walnut that would hold all the information in the Library of Congress, and vision systems for robots so smart that they can immediately make sense of anything they see. 

Even sober-minded scientists marvel at the speed with which the famous physicists' theories are suddenly being put to practical use. "Quantum theory was all thought to be unimaginably remote from the devices of everyday life," says John A. Armstrong, vice president and director of research at IBM, another center of quantum research. Adds Bell Labs physicist David A.B. Miller: "We are turning an intellectual curiosity into something we can engineer." At Bell Labs, for instance, Federico Capasso, head of AT&T's newly formed quantum phenomena and device research department, recently built a quantum-effect transistor that can perform the functions of 20 conventional transistors. Even so, Capasso's quantum transistor is slightly less advanced in some respects than TI's. 

To create practical results from quantum principles, scientists have to work with materials at a more elemental level than ever before. They are now reaching inside and rearranging the atomic structure of materials they work with, much as genetic engineers reorder DNA molecules, the code of life, in bacteria and the cells of plants and animals. The quantum engineers work on an even smaller scale than genetic engineers. They can already imprison a dozen or so electrons in a quantum well, and they hope to develop a still tinier device called a quantum dot that could confine a single electron in a box only slightly bigger than an atom. The electron's presence or absence could then serve to create the smallest memory cell ever devised, using the basic digital system computers employ to record and manipulate information. The electron's presence would stand for a binary 1 or YES; its absence would represent a 0 or NO. 

WHAT MAKES quantum engineering possible is scientists' newfound ability to tailor-make materials for electronics and for optoelectronics, which uses light instead of electrons to transmit and record data. In the past engineers had to rely on the ability of natural substances to conduct electronic signals and to absorb and emit light. Now they can make to order whatever substances they need. They do it with special vacuum machines that deposit layers of materials the thickness of a single atom atop a wafer, frequently made of gallium arsenide, that serves as the foundation of the device being manufactured. So fine is their control that researchers can intermingle atoms of different types, creating sandwiches of materials that do not exist in nature. (Gallium arsenide itself is an artificial compound of gallium and arsenic.) 

Scientists combine such materials because their atomic structures allow electrons to pass through them more readily than through silicon, the workhorse of modern electronics. Gallium arsenide and other complex semiconductors can also be made to generate or detect light easily, which is virtually impossible with silicon. That makes feasible both novel transistors and such optoelectronic devices as semiconductor lasers, optical switches, and highly sensitive photodetectors. 

After the desired layers -- sometimes as many as 200 -- are deposited, the foundation wafer is then cut into tiny individual cubes, each the size of a grain of salt. Scientists can design a function into each tiny cube with an accuracy never before possible. By building up 200 layers of quantum wells in a single infrared detection device, for instance, researchers are able to create the equivalent of 200 consecutive fishing nets that efficiently capture all the incoming fish -- in this case, photons of light. That's how the device can see a lit candle miles away, using ultimately the same kind of mechanism the eye does: A receptor transforms an incoming quantum of light, a photon, into an electrical signal that the brain -- or a computer -- can recognize. 

Quantum engineers are already reasonably proficient at making individual quantum wells, but mass-production techniques for quantum devices have yet to be developed. Quantum-well lasers are coming along faster than quantum-well transistors, but mastery of this type of micromanufacturing is bound to take years. Even if quantum transistors could be mass-produced, incorporating such tiny entities into a chip presents still other substantial challenges. Connecting quantum wells with conventional wiring would defeat the purpose of quantum electronics. Even the smallest conventional wires would tower like telephone poles over the flyspeck quantum wells. TI and others are exploring something called cellular automata, arrangements whereby a few adjoining quantum dots could communicate with one another without wires. 

Despite the many uncertainties, TI scientists confidently foresee the construction of the first rudimentary quantum chip within a year or two. Quantum chips may not be sold by the billions until after the year 2000, and there may be detours along the way. IBM's Armstrong, for one, sees nitrogen-cooled silicon chips as potential competition for quantum devices. That minority view, however, may reflect IBM's traditional tendency to hold on to established technology as long as possible. 

TI's George Heilmeier likes to say that lead time -- being ahead of competitors -- is the only thing that really counts in high technology. As the American-Japanese industrial competition has shown, however, there's a lot more to success in the marketplace than getting there first. The big winner in this technology, as in many others, will be the company -- and the country -- that can successfully mass-produce quantum chips. When it comes to fighting it out in the factory, probably only the biggest U.S. corporations have any hope of success against the Japanese. Japan already supplies most of the semiconductor lasers for compact disc players and about half those used for fiber-optic cable transmissions, and Japanese companies are beginning to make quantum-well lasers too. 

IN THE U.S., much of the quantum work is supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa). Only a handful of corporations -- chiefly AT&T, IBM, TI, GE, and Hughes Aircraft -- are deeply involved. No big U.S. company makes semiconductor lasers. In the emerging quantum-laser market, a handful of small entrepreneurial companies such as Spectra Diode and Ortel Corp. of Alhambra, California, are facing multibillion-dollar Japanese conglomerates like Hitachi, Sony, and NEC. Says Heilmeier: "It's not a pretty picture." If there is a bright side for U.S. competitors, it's that the Japanese still lag in independent creativity. "Whenever I go to Japan," says an IBM scientist, "they keep asking me, `What do we do next?' " But they are getting better all the time. 

HOW QUANTUM THEORY WORKS IN LASERS AND TRANSISTORS 

Quantum mechanics deals with energy in bundles. The word quantum means "unit," and it was first used by Albert Einstein to describe the particle of light -- a photon, the ephemeral cousin of the electron. Photons have varying levels of energy that correspond to different colors -- frequencies -- of light. For example, red light is used in photographic darkrooms because its low energy level does not damage exposed film. In contrast, the much more energetic photons in blue light can penetrate deep into the sea. The light spectrum looks continuous, but it is not; each frequency is quantized -- that is, measurably distinct from its neighbor. 

Electrons too have discrete energy levels. In the quantum view of the atom, which replaced the earlier model of it as a miniature solar system, electrons orbit the nucleus not as planetlike particles but as clearly separated waves. Their distinct energy levels, corresponding to their varying distances from the nucleus, can be used to switch or amplify electronic signals; those are the basic functions of transistors. Similarly, the distinct energy levels of photons can be used in lasers that generate highly directed, concentrated beams of different colors for applications that range from reattaching retinas to cutting steel. 

While understanding discrete energy levels in photons and electrons was essential to developing the earliest lasers and transistors, scientists and engineers are now gaining control over quantum phenomena at a level approaching the ultimate in miniaturization. Potentially, a single electron could be confined inside atom-size energy boxes called quantum wells. In the photograph at left, the different energy levels of several electrons in a quantum well appear as different colors. When some of the electrons reach a particular energy level, they will tunnel through the thin walls of the well, a quantum effect that can be applied to ultrafast processing of signals in transistors. 

In the new quantum lasers, engineers use quantum wells to choose the light frequency they want. 

Attracted to the wells much like water flowing downhill, the negatively charged electrons combine with positively charged "holes," spaces within the tight confines of the wells, to yield an intense stream of photons -- a beam of laser light of unprecedented power. 

CAPTION: The tiny quantum laser held by Donald Scifres, CEO of Spectra Diode Laboratories, packs as much wallop as the older, boxy version he's leaning on -- and requires 1/1000th of the power. CAPTION: Investigating new materials at Caltech, David Ting checks a computer model of electrons in a quantum well. CAPTION: To make ultra-sensitive light detectors, this machine at Bell Labs deposits atomic layers of materials like gallium and arsenic, greatly magnified in the IBM photo at right. CAPTION: See above. ILLUSTRATION: photograph 


Document fortu00020020328dl1u002q3


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 12 *******************   



Developments to Watch SCIENTISTS GET A 3-D LOOK AT LIFE'S BUILDING BLOCKS 

EDITED BY WILLIAM D. MARBACH 
203 words 
6 February 1989
Business Week 
Pg. 81 
Vol. Number 3090 
English
Copyright 1989 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

To the untrained eye they're not much more interesting than a snapshot of the Grand Canyon. But to molecular biologists, photos produced recently by scientists at Lawrence Livermore and Lawrence Berkeley laboratories are masterpieces. They provide the first visual confirmation of oneof the 20th century's landmark discoveries--the structureof DNA. 

Using a scanning tunneling microscope, which creates images of individual atoms by tracing the surface of materials with an electrically charged stylus, the team of scientists captured the first three-dimensional look at the structural features of a strand of DNA. The photos clearly show the double-helix structure described by James D. Watson and Francis H. C. Crick 35 years ago at Cambridge University. 

So far, the scanning tunneling microscope has been used mainly by physicists to picture the atomic structure of metals and crystals. Scientists now hope to turn the microscope's powers on protein molecules, which fold into complex, three-dimensional shapes that are critical to their function. In a paper in the journal Science, the team predicted that portraits of proteins would prompt a ''revolution in molecular biology.'' 

Document bw00000020011116dl26000c0


More Like This

 Article 13 *******************    



Science & Technology TAMING SPACE AND TIME TO MAKE TOMORROW'S CHIPS 

Otis Port in New York, with bureau reports 
1,723 words 
13 March 1989
Business Week 
Pg. 70 
Vol. Number 3095 
English
Copyright 1989 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Intel Corp. and other chipmakers continue to make startling advances in semiconductor technology. And by the year 2000, silicon chips could pack 1,000 times more transistors than now. But you ain't seen nothing yet. Getting set to pick up where today's circuits leave off are two radically different techniques. In the 1990s, vacuum tubes may get updated to tubes-on-a-chip. And in the 21st century, chips could invade the weird realm of quantum mechanics. QUANTUM EFFECT CHIPS In today's best microprocessors, the transistors are tiny enough--about 1/100 the width of a human hair--that a million or so can be crammed onto a fingernail-size slice of silicon. But that's child's play compared with what researchers have in mind. They dream of a computer-on-a-chip that has transistors only a few atoms across. With such ethereal switches, one chip could be packed with billions of transistors, or more number-crunching power than today's biggest supercomputer. There's a hitch, though. 

Achieving this will require a quantum leap--to quantum mechanics. In this weird, unpredictable world of the ultratiny, electrons flit back and forth between being a dot of solid matter and an incorporeal field of energy. They ''tunnel'' through time and space, inexplicably vanishing from here and willy-nilly popping up there--instantaneously, without ever passing through the intervening space. Yet researchers are bent on harnessing this seeming chaos. ''What do we do when the traditional physics governing the behavior of electrons no longer holds?'' asks David V. Lang, director of solid-state electronics research at AT&T Bell Laboratories. ''Well, we don't know yet.'' 

But already there are some very tantalizing indications. Texas Instruments Inc. recently grabbed headlines by fabricating a working quantum-effect transistor, and ''quantum wires'' only a handful of atoms thick were produced a few weeks ago at the new Center for Quantized Electronic Structures at the University of California at Santa Barbara. Theoretically, TI's quantum-tunneling transistor can switch on and off a trillion times per second. That's 1,000 times quicker than today's commercial transistors. ''When we finally burst the bubble of quantum electronics, it will be like moving from one universe to an entirely new one,'' asserts Hector Ruiz, director of semiconductor technology for Motorola Inc. ''Applications will be limited only by our imaginations.'' 

Still, even George H. Heilmeier, TI's chief technical officer, cautions that researchers have barely scratched the surface of quantum electronics. ''We're now about where we were with silicon technology in the 1940s,'' when Bell Labs was working on the first solid-state transistor, he says. So don't look for ''gigachips'' stuffed with billions of transistors to arrive much before the year 2000. Certain critical issues, adds James D. Meindl, provost of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and former director of Stanford University's Center for Integrated Systems, ''haven't even been solved conceptually, let alone practically.'' Indeed, few, if any, of the fundamental principles underlying today's integrated circuits will apply in the quantum realm. 

To fill in the gaps, scientists at high-power research labs around the world--including Germany's Max Planck Institute, Japan's Electrotechnical Lab, and the Netherlands' Philips, plus IBM, MIT, and Sandia Laboratories in the U. S.--have been methodically plugging away for a decade. They use some of the most exquisitely precise equipment ever devised, such as molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE) machines and metal organic chemical-vapor deposition (MOCVD) systems. This equipment can already lay down semiconductor materials in layers that are the thickness of a single atom. NEC Corp. and others are now working on a new approach, called digital epitaxy, that will provide still tighter control. COLLISIONS. Regular chipmaking equipment can't come close to fabricating quantum transistors. The latest systems can be pushed to produce structures a mere 0.5 micron--or half of a millionth of a meter--wide. But the quantum realm begins below 0.01 micron. Distances then get so infinitesimal that physicists measure them in angstrom units, or 0.1 billionths of a meter. If a grain of salt were as tall as Chicago's Sears Tower, 1 angstrom would be about as thick as a sheet of paper. 

To achieve the phenomenal speeds promised by quantum electronics, transistors must shrink 100-fold or more. Otherwise, there is a high probability that electrons zipping across the transistor will bump into atoms in the semiconductor crystal. In current chips, these collisions happen so frequently--every 100 angstroms in silicon, on average, and every 1,000 angstroms in gallium arsenide--that the electron flow is seriously impeded. Result: Switching time slows to a fraction of what's possible. 

But in 1981, Lester F. Eastman, an electrical engineering professor at Cornell University, advanced the notion of ''ballistic'' transistors, or transistors so minuscule that electrons could shoot across them without collisions. Until recently, nobody could make a transistor that tiny, so the only way to test Eastman's idea was to create a switchlike junction between ultrathin layers of different semiconductor materials. Such a so-called heterojunction was created by Mordehai Heiblum, a scientist at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center. In 1986, Heiblum and Eastman demonstrated ballistic transport through the inner layer in a sandwich of gallium arsenide and aluminum gallium arsenide. SENSE OF PLACE. Last year, Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Co. crafted an actual transistor in a heterojunction material and obtained marginally ballistic properties, with a switching rate of 105 billion times a second. Bell Labs topped that by using the needle-sharp beam of energy from an electron-beam machine to carve a tinier, 500-angstrom transistor on a similar heterojunction--and recorded partially ballistic results. Its switching speed was measured at 140 billion times a second. With its E-beam machine, Bell Labs has also made a smaller switch--just 300 angstroms across--that cycles ballistically through a trillion on/off operations a second. It is useful for research, notes Lang, but he admits that its design is impractical. It is simply too sensitive. It can be triggered by the arrival of a single electron. 

That points up how disconcerting quantum mechanics can be. Since electrons hop around randomly, quantum transistors must be engineered to resist activation when one or two electrons drop in unexpectedly, or if a couple abruptly vanish into the ether, says Robert T. Bate, a TI research manager. TI's quantum-effect device may be the smallest transistor yet--only 200 angstroms wide--but it requires at least a dozen electrons to set it off. 

But researchers haven't given up on the idea of hypersmall devices that would cage solitary electrons in a ''quantum dot'' as small as 10 angstroms. There are indications, says TI's Bate, that an array of quantum dots grouped closely together could communicate among themselves without wirelike connections. That would help alleviate a major headache for tomorrow's chip designers: figuring out how to hook up billions of switches. In today's chips, connecting a million transistors requires several meters of wiring, which has to be laid out painstakingly to avoid eating up a lot of silicon ''real estate.'' Stringing together 1,000 to 10,000 times as many transistors and stuffing that layout on a little chip would be mind-boggling. 

As for the random tunneling problem, researchers may be able to concoct some way to exploit another curious aspect of quantum theory: Once an electron has been in a given place, it somehow retains a mysterious link to that place. Nobody can explain this, and it clearly conflicts with elements of Einstein's theory of relativity. However, in tests designed to pit quantum mechanics against relativity, quantum mechanics has won. It may be possible for quantum computers to use an electron's sense of place to tell if it's where it's supposed to be. POWER TO BURN. If quantum electronics seems like Alice-in-Wonderland technology, the basic principles are already being applied in superefficient semiconductor lasers. For laser diodes, ''quantum-effect devices are here today,'' declares Nick Holonyak Jr., a pioneer in the field who teaches at the University of Illinois. These devices bounce electrons back and forth inside a so-called quantum well, amplifying their energy until the proper lasing frequency is reached. 

Despite the long-term potential of quantum electronics, many experts warn that current silicon technology isn't yet down for the count. It will probably remain the semiconductor industry's workhorse into the next century. Today's 1-micron transistors are now shrinking to 0.7 micron, which will increase the number of transistors per chip to 10 million or more. After dropping to 0.5 micron by the mid-1990s, silicon chips may host 100 million transistors. Near the turn of the century, with 0.2-micron structures, even silicon may hit the gigachip level. 

Nevertheless, silicon's limits are plainly visible, and the electronics industry will have to find an alternative to sustain further improvements in computing power. Lang of Bell Labs is confident that quantum chips ''will be the dawn of a new technology.'' Packing a supercomputer's punch onto individual chips will usher in so much power ''that we can squander it'' on a new generation of user-friendly machines. They may even understand verbal commands and sense from your tone of voice or your facial expression how urgent a job is. 

Eventually portable, wallet-size packages could combine the functions of a cellular telephone, beeper, answering machine, electronic-mail terminal, television set, and personal supercomputer. Even Star Trek's Captain Kirk would be proud of such a gadget. 

Illustration: WHEN ATOMS ARE BUILDING BLOCKS Elements such as gallium and arsenide are loaded into a molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE) system and vaporized. When a shutter opens for a precise interval, the vacuum sucks out a stream of hot, ionized atoms that ''paints'' the substrate. To make ''quantum wires'' the MBE machine (A) first lays down a pattern of aluminum arsenide. The gaps between are filled with gallium arsenide (B), and successive layers of both molecules are deposited (C) to build the finished wire. LAUREL DAUNIS 


Document bw00000020011116dl3d000nk


More Like This

 Article 14 *******************    


REINVENTING IBM. 

By Joel Dreyfuss 
5,088 words 
14 August 1989
Fortune 
30 
English
Copyright Time Inc. 1989 

SAY "IBM" to a Japanese executive and he's likely to nod knowingly and talk about eye bee emu-san in hushed, respectful tones. Many Japanese managers are openly scornful of the way U.S. corporations are run, but IBM remains cause for reverence, the rare American company that evokes admiration and even fear. Technologically powerful, selling in 130 countries, and wealthy enough to take on Japan Inc., the world's fifth-largest industrial corporation is emblematic of America's hopes for winning on the rugged fields of global competition. 

It is also a symbol of America's lapse from greatness. "We took our eye off the ball," confesses John F. Akers, the 54-year-old chairman and CEO. IBM has yet to regain the double-digit growth rates that came as regularly as the sunrise just a few years ago. Revenues climbed 8% to $59.6 billion last year and nearly 8% in the first half of this year, a nice recovery from the 2.8% increase of 1986 but far from the 15% average of the early 1980s. The stock of this bluest of blue chips, once a favorite of institutions and individuals alike, has bounced around for years, trading recently around $115 a share, far beneath its precrash high of $175. 

What ball did IBM lose sight of? Mainly the customer and his changing tastes. Companies are moving from big mainframe machines, IBM's bread and butter (see chart, page 33), toward networks of smaller, ever more powerful desktop models. Concerned with protecting its basic business, IBM came late to personal computers, and the ones it built fell behind the competition in performance. The company surrendered such promising niches as laptops and technical workstations to newcomers. It let costs run away and failed to take full advantage of its acclaimed research prowess. 

Critics wonder how a giant enterprise employing 387,000 people can keep pace in a market now teeming with small, nimble competitors. The problem will be even more acute if, as many suspect, the industry evolves toward "open systems" -- networks of computers from various manufacturers sharing a large body of software. With its high prices and proprietary software base, IBM looks ill-equipped to compete in such a world. Asks Sanjiv Hingorani, an analyst at Salomon Brothers: "What is going to make IBM grow 10% a year?" 

The answer may not be long in coming. Akers has shattered tradition by publicly discussing IBM's shortcomings. And over the past three years he has set out to remedy them by reinventing the company. He has reorganized its bureaucratic management structure into one designed to address customers' needs and is transforming the IBM culture to the same end. So sweeping are the changes that Akers could stamp the most enduring mark on the company since Thomas Watson Jr. propelled it to world dominance. Says Bob Djurdjevic, whose Annex Research in Phoenix specializes in keeping IBM customers abreast of developments at Big Blue: "This is the most radical cultural change in IBM's history." 

IBM is again flexing the technological muscle that made it the world's leader. The past few months have seen a razzle-dazzle burst of new products and good news about old ones. The AS/400 minicomputer is off to the best start ever for an IBM machine, slowing the gains Digital Equipment has been making at IBM's expense. Though the two-year-old PS/2 line of microcomputers has yet to achieve its goal of setting a new standard for desktop computers in the office, sales in the second quarter climbed 40% from last year. Even mainframe sales are up, especially in Europe, where companies are improving their information handling in preparation for 1992. 

IBM RESEARCHERS have won two Nobel Prizes in the past four years, for work on superconductivity and the scanning tunneling microscope. More to the point for customers, IBM is bringing its technical expertise -- too often stuck behind the laboratory door in the past -- to the marketplace more effectively. It is producing a four-megabit memory chip, the most complex of its kind to date, which puts it months ahead of the Japanese competition. Pointedly upstaging rival Compaq, it brought out a snap-in board for its top-end PS/2 model that incorporates Intel's latest 486 microprocessor. If anyone missed the message that IBM was back, it also unveiled the long-anticipated OfficeVision software that will finally let its disparate mainframes, minis, and micros communicate with ease. 

The man behind these accomplishments is only the sixth CEO in IBM's 75-year history. Akers is a Bostonian who played hockey at Yale in the early 1950s and flew fighter planes in the peacetime Navy. Deliberate and unpretentious, he has spent his entire career at IBM, working his way up from sales trainee to the chairman's office. Akers was practically unknown to outsiders when the board handed him the top job and a bushel of troubles four years ago. His personal life remains low key in spite of his greatly enhanced total compensation, $2 million last year. He and his wife, Susan, live in a two-story, four-bedroom house in Westport, Connecticut, and have a summer home on Nantucket. He drives a 1977 Mercedes. They have a son and two daughters, all in their 20s. 

A golfing companion describes Akers as a fiery competitor on the links who -- like many top managers -- would be better at the game if he had more time. Akers can still recite the lineup of the 1949 Boston Red Sox team that lost the pennant to the hated Yankees. He often spends the early morning aboard an exercise bike at home, pondering his company. "After I've gone through that and showered and shaved," he says, "I'm pretty energetic and I've got my head clear." 

Akers does not appear overwhelmed by the task of redirecting such a mammoth enterprise. "This is a pretty collegial place," he insists. "The chief executive always sets the course and the tone, but he gets an awful lot of help." One of IBM's outside directors says the board has not leaned on Akers during the company's tough times. "The pressure on John is self-inflicted," he says. "He's got a certain amount of pride." Sensitive about the impact of his position, Akers sets a style that lets people act freely. In meetings, he points out, "everybody watches the boss. What's his sense of urgency? What's his level of satisfaction? How aggressive is he?" He says he has always avoided taking advantage of a colleague in a business situation: "It's not my position to embarrass anyone." 

It also takes humility to admit that you need to change in areas that have always been considered your strength. When IBM's near-monopoly eroded and new technologies began to explode in the early 1980s, the decision-making process that had served IBM well was suddenly cumbersome. Its corporate management board, with 18 senior executives, was handing down decisions from world headquarters in Armonk, New York, on everything from advertising campaigns to R&D allocations for specific products. 

IBM was not thinking about the limitations of top-down management when the world began to get more competitive. Convinced that the biggest threat was Japan's awesome manufacturing prowess, the company spent $16.5 billion on new plants and focused on improving productivity and quality. Victims of their own achievements, IBM executives were extravagantly predicting that IBM would grow into a $100 billion company by 1990. (This year's likely revenues of $64 billion leave the old predictions far, far away.) The surest way to reach its goal, IBM concluded, was to play it safe in the marketplace. Akers acknowledges that the products the company introduced as a result were unexciting and middle-of-the-road. "We didn't want to tamper with success," he says. "We decided to be careful instead of aggressive." 

When the boom in computer purchases fueled sales in the early 1980s, productivity goals and divisional politics became more important than the changing market. New products, like the PCjr, a personal computer for the home market, and the RT PC, a workstation, satisfied IBM's internal mandates but were embarrassingly weak competitors against rival products. Says Akers: "We were trying to solve some problems that were more IBM's than the customer's." 

Reversing those priorities has been crucial to Akers's plan. Last year he reorganized the core company, IBM USA, into seven autonomous business units: PCs, mainframes, minicomputers, communications, microchip manufacturing, programming, and software, with an eighth unit that handles marketing for all the others. He left largely untouched the foreign operations, such as IBM Europe and IBM Japan. Though he got 6,500 employees to retire, he couldn't trim the company's size by firing. IBM has always hewed to a no-layoff tradition during even the toughest times. Instead he moved 20,000 from staff and laboratory jobs to the sales force, where they could boost revenues and increase contacts with customers. 

Akers has preached endlessly that IBM must transform itself. "Our growth is really in our hands," he told an unusual meeting of 500 senior managers in January. "I believe the IBM company must become the world's champion in meeting the needs of our customers." 

Underpinning Akers's cultural revolution is a systematic effort to push responsibility down the ranks. The decentralization has put the fate of the company squarely in the hands of the general managers of the autonomous business units, all large enough to be FORTUNE 500 companies on their own. Before, the management board kept close tabs on the performance of senior executives. Now general managers negotiate their business plans with Akers and the board each year and then go off to run their divisions. Frank Metz, the chief financial officer, told the January meeting of senior managers: "The corporate management board, to its delight, is spending two-thirds less time reviewing monthly measurements." 

The leaders of this cultural revolution seem cut from the old mold, lifelong IBMers who toil in the still-requisite dark suit and white shirt. ("There's no rule about white shirts," insists an IBM manager, "but when I wear a striped shirt, my colleagues ask if I'm going to the beach.") But there's one important difference: Where sales used to be the route to the top, many of today's executives have strong technical backgrounds along with the characteristic IBM traits of competence, charm, and wariness. Among them: Jack Kuehler, 56, an engineer who championed memory chip technology and advanced microprocessors for workstations, whose elevation to president in May has been heralded as proof of IBM's new stress on technical strength. 

Conversations with the new business heads reveal how much better IBM's management works these days. Ellen Hancock, 46, general manager of communication systems, which develops such products as modems and computer networks, has 10,000 employees reporting to her. The highest-ranking woman at IBM, she started as a programmer in 1966, became a manager of software programming for communications products, and was named a vice president in 1985. 

Hancock, whose frequent hearty laughter belies her scholarly demeanor, says the reorganization has clarified lines of responsibility. "If there's something in telecommunications and we're not doing it, it's probably not being done," she says. "Before, you could assume somebody else in IBM was working on it, and perhaps that was true." Hancock says Akers is constantly prodding senior managers to be more daring and creative. She recently appointed two executives to pursue alliances with other companies in telecommunications to develop new products and services. Earlier, she notes, such moves would have required approval from the top. Says she: "It really has been fun." 

Although they are autonomous, the general managers consult one another frequently. They say their dealings are remarkably free of red tape. "It's a one-level thing among us chickens," says George Conrades, 50, who heads U.S. marketing. One benefit is that the managers don't waste time politicking to curry the favor of superiors. Conflicts used to work their way up to the management board. Now, if the business heads can't resolve disputes, the final arbiter is one level up: Terry Lautenbach, 56, head of IBM USA. But Conrades says such adjudications are rare. "Peer group pressure," he says, "is greater than any fiat from on high." 

Handing down responsibility is but one step in getting closer to customers. Long in the habit of telling buyers what it thought was good for them, IBM is having to teach its executives how to listen and become problem solvers. Akers forced the issue in the fall of 1986, when he invited several key customers to participate in the company's strategic planning conference. "I couldn't imagine former chairmen John Opel or Frank Cary doing that," says an IBM-watcher who knows the company well. The customers were unusually blunt. Akers, listening hard, firmly acknowledged the criticisms and vowed that IBM would take them seriously. Soon after that he declared that 1987 would be "the year of the customer" and launched a series of programs to bring users in during the design and introduction stages -- a striking departure from IBM's notorious secrecy about new products. 

THE GLASNOST paid off handsomely in the development of the AS/400 minicomputer, introduced last year as the overdue replacement for IBM's aging System 36 and System 38 machines. Digital Equipment's minis had been eating IBM's lunch for years because of their superior performance and the ability of different models to talk to each other. Engineers put together a prototype of the AS/400 in November 1985, and IBM decided to go ahead with the project in early 1986. 

IBM created an advisory council of customers and shared its plans for the new computer. "It sounds easier than it was," says Stephen Schwartz, 54, the dour trouble-shooter who runs the Application Business Systems division, which manufactures minicomputers. "Developers become very protective of their thing." But the engineers eventually dropped their defenses. For example, potential buyers persuaded IBM to make it easier for them to transfer programs and data from the old machines to the new. Knowing that programming would be the key to selling the AS/400, the company also brought independent software companies into the planning in early 1987. 

By the time IBM formally introduced the AS/400, potential buyers had tested 1,700 of the computers, and IBM made further changes in response to their criticisms. After tuning the system to foreign markets, IBM presented it around the world simultaneously and was ready with more than 1,000 software applications in 12 languages, including French, Japanese, and Chinese. IBM has called the AS/400 the most successful product launch in its history. In less than a year it sold more than 25,000 machines -- worth an estimated $3 billion. 

OUTSIDERS are bringing a fresh understanding of the customer to IBM's Application Solutions division, the 30,000-strong software business unit headed by Ned Lautenbach, 45, brother of Terry Lautenbach. Ned Lautenbach's unit markets software and hardware to 17 major industries, from banking to automobiles, and is the fastest-growing part of IBM. Breaking with tradition, Lautenbach has recruited industry experts -- from stock and bond traders to CPAs, from teachers to hospital administrators -- to help develop and pitch products. "We've struggled to make sure we have all the right skills and abilities," he says. 

Among IBM's sales and service forces, pleasing the customer has taken on almost mythic proportions. Conrades's instruction to his salespeople is simple and to the point: When the customer asks for something, "Just say yes." And autonomy makes saying yes easier. Ron Kilpatrick, an area manager, supervises 3,200 systems engineers and marketing representatives in Southern California, Arizona, and Hawaii from Los Angeles. Kilpatrick, who was a vice president in the division that handled dealers, jumped at the chance to go west and in effect run his own operation. He and a regional manager concluded recently that IBM wasn't paying enough attention to an important customer in Phoenix, so on the spot they created a new branch office. When fire in a Los Angeles high-rise knocked out the computer system of another major client, Kilpatrick was on the phone to the CEO immediately, offering to lend equipment and technicians. The system was back up and running before he thought to tell Armonk. In the past, he says, he would have had to call headquarters for approval first. 

To make sure the troops keep their priorities straight, Akers has overturned the old commission system that rewarded salespeople for the number of units they rented or sold. Now IBM reps are measured on total revenue. They can concentrate on the customer's needs even if those don't maximize short-term revenue to IBM: smaller computers, software, networks, and, in the new spirit of entrepreneurship, even tying in other companies' products if that's what the customer must have. 

The reps appear enthusiastic about the new approach. "My goal is to spend 80% of my time with customers," says Fred Liu, one of the thousands of IBMers redeployed to the field in the reorganization. An engineer who helped develop the AS/400, Liu now works with the information systems department of Farmers Group in Los Angeles, a large property and casualty insurer. He has spent many evenings helping his customer upgrade the software in its major system. "I'm part of Farmers' team," he says proudly. "I really felt the partnership when one of Farmers' employees came up to me, explained a decision the company was considering on a technical problem, and asked, `Do you concur?' " 

Bolstered with the redeployed technical and staff people, the sales force has more time for the smaller accounts IBM used to neglect. Computer usage surveys show that up to 70% of small businesses still don't have a computer, so future growth is clearly in this area. Roxanne Reynolds-Lair, information systems director of the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising in Los Angeles, recalls that when she called IBM's marketers a few years ago, "You left messages, and they wouldn't call you back." Now they not only call back, but when the institute moves to new quarters next year, IBM will design the computer center and install all the equipment. Says Reynolds-Lair: "They've entered the 1990s." 

IBM'S SERVICE division is learning to embrace customers who mix and match brands. "We had built a tremendous skill base in solving problems," says David McDowell, 46, president of the 29,000-employee national service division. "Today we can help with everything." His troops will tackle whatever the customer asks: service other brands, tie them to IBM computers, or recover lost data after a disaster. This new ecumenism isn't a matter of charity. McDowell estimates that computer users spend $100 billion a year on maintenance and service, and he wants more of that. 

In a change of no less import, IBM has abandoned its not-invented-here arrogance in favor of joint ventures with small outside firms that can help it develop new technologies or open new markets. Says Philippe Kahn, chairman of Borland International, a PC software developer: "They're more open to suggestions we make, and they're more open to interesting business relationships." IBM has invested in a dozen small software companies, licensed programming technology from Steven Jobs's Next Inc., and joined a consortium of investors in U.S. Memories, a company that aims to reduce the U.S. dependence on Japan for DRAMs, the most common variety of memory chip. When supercomputer whiz Steve Chen quit Cray Research, IBM quickly invested in his new company. 

Foreign customers too are getting stroked as never before. IBM's best news recently has come from overseas, where revenues went up 15.5% to $34.4 billion in 1988, 58% of the total, and have kept rising in double digits for the first half of this year. Profits from abroad, always a large part of IBM's earnings, reached almost 75% of the total last year. 

In Italy the company has formed alliances with European distributors and doubled its sales staff, spending 40% more "face" time with customers. IBM Japan has finally ended a 20-year slide from first to third place in its competition against NEC and Fujitsu, Japan's big computer makers. It has begun to match competitors by discounting and customizing products for the Japanese market. "We're no longer just offering what has been developed in other parts of the world," says Takeo Shiina, president of IBM Japan. For example, while U.S. customers still await a decent laptop, IBM Japan introduced one with full Japanese-language capability two years ago. Thanks to such efforts, Nikkei Watcher on IBM, a Japanese trade publication, expects IBM Japan to grow 13.5% next year, faster than its competitors. 

Those technically oriented leaders eager to please customers are helping IBM get new technologies out of the laboratory faster. The company dismayed Japanese rivals recently with the announcement that it was producing the four-megabit chip in large volume. Patrick Toole, 52, the general manager of technology products, says the reorganization has helped. Now, like other heads of business units, he decides what products to make after negotiating with his customers: the other unit heads. Says Toole: "Much more of what I do now turns into successful products." 

But technical prowess alone is not enough. IBM learned that when it introduced the Micro Channel, an internal connector for the PS/2 microcomputers that allowed data to be manipulated more quickly. Customers yawned. The company concedes now that it never sold the advantages of Micro Channel. "What's important to the customer is solving his problem, and the flow of technology is almost incidental," says Akers. 

UNLIKE YESTERDAY'S computer specialists, today's executives use their machines as strategic tools. A shipping company, for example, can call up rates for all its competitors on a route and instantly offer a lower price to customers. Or it can look at prices and profit margins on a variety of goods and turn down a shipment with a low margin in favor of one with a higher payoff. Managers playing with such information have no patience for arcane commands, indecipherable screens, and rigid barriers between databases. They want to reach all their information easily without having to worry about where it is stored or what brand of computer it's on. The computer industry buzzword is "transparency." 

Bewildered and frustrated by the proliferation of incompatible machines, buyers have spurred the movement toward "open systems," a universal standard that would allow software to run on many different brands of hardware. That clearly threatens IBM and other large computer makers such as Digital Equipment, which have traditionally clung to proprietary machines and programming. John Levinson of Goldman Sachs foresees what he calls an "industry standard chassis," a cheap, generic computer that would use Unix, an operating system popular in universities and engineering centers. Other analysts, looking further out, imagine networks that run just fine regardless of which operating systems the various machines linked to them use. 

IBM's response is two-pronged: Beat 'em and join 'em. It wants to tighten its grip on its own broad base of customers who use its proprietary systems, while also offering its own version of Unix. 

OfficeVision, a software bridge that straddles its three incompatible computer architectures, is IBM's bid to protect its home turf. OfficeVision allows PCs, minis, and mainframes to share programs and data, and presents an easy-to-use Macintosh-like screen to all users. It's a technological tour de force, a glimpse of what the billions in R&D money can deliver. It is also expensive at an estimated $8,000 per user. "It's not for people who are price-sensitive," says Richard Shaffer, publisher of Technologic Computer Letter, a trade publication. OfficeVision also makes customers more dependent on IBM, since it needs IBM's operating system and software. 

THE JOIN 'EM part, IBM's version of Unix, is called AIX. Last year IBM surprised many in the industry by hooking up with rival Digital and other companies in the Open Software Foundation, a group established to set a software standard for Unix-based computers. Joseph Guglielmi, 48, president of the Application Systems division, says IBM will develop links to let users pass data between AIX machines and its other computers. Akers says IBM is not at all ambivalent about proprietary vs. open systems. "We're spending more on Unix-based open systems than any other company in the world," he says. "That's a statement of commitment, and that's a statement of leadership. We're trying to do both very well." This fall IBM is expected to introduce a much more powerful family of workstations that should make it a serious competitor in the Unix market. 

Still, IBM has good reason to sell OfficeVision as hard as possible: The system's heart is an IBM mainframe, doing less computing but serving as a central data library and switchboard for the desktop machines that are sprouting up all over. 

IBM contends that Wall Street underestimates the future of the mainframe computer, which still delivers 70% to 75% of the company's profits. Domestic sales of mainframes have been modest, but the big machines are unmatched in handling huge quantities of data. And the trends in computing promise a need for more storage capacity, to accommodate image reproduction, voice recognition, corporate databases, and easier-to-use software. Brian Jeffery, managing director of International Technology Group, a consulting firm in Los Altos, California, expects the business to get a much-needed boost in 1991, when the company introduces its next-generation mainframe. The machine, code named Summit, may well incorporate such cutting-edge technologies as fiber-optic connectors and superfast gallium arsenide memory chips. 

Though IBM makes more money than any other company in the world, it doesn't make enough. It has preserved its lush 70% gross profit margins on mainframes and proprietary software despite sharp competition from such makers of compatible machines as Amdahl and Hitachi. It also hopes to lift sales of high-margin software and small business systems fast enough to make up for slower sales of big systems. 

Though IBM has closed plants, cut discretionary spending, and reduced capital expenditures, costs have risen faster than revenues during most of the reorganization. But the company may be getting somewhere. As recently as two years ago costs were climbing so fast that it needed annual revenue increases of more than 10% just to keep earnings steady. Frank Metz told security analysts in March that IBM could now maintain current earnings on 6% revenue increases. Analysts are taking heart. "They've been saying they're getting overhead down for quite a while," says John Jones, computer industry analyst at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "The results are finally surfacing." 

ONE REASON costs remain high is the no-layoff policy. Don Young, an analyst with the Sanford C. Bernstein investment firm, estimates that keeping those 20,000 redeployed people on the payroll is pulling profits down by 35%. But Akers's strategy in shifting those folks is to eventually make them a profit center. 

Indeed, the new customer-friendly posture and the expanding role in software and service are the pillars of Akers's strategy for competing in a world IBM no longer dominates. Imagine squads of problem solvers living with customers and looking for opportunities to help out -- at a price, of course. Focus just on the $100 billion a year that computer users pay various people and firms for maintenance and service. Today IBM captures about 9% of that. Each new percentage point of market share translates into $1 billion of revenue. And if the generic computer does eventually prevail, companies more than ever will need skilled, sympathetic service people to help them get the best performance and value from their systems. A vast army in dark suits and white shirts chanting "Just say yes" would be a force to reckon with -- anywhere on the globe. 

CAPTION: THE NEW IBM How CEO John Akers is reviving an American powerhouse CAPTION: COVER AND ABOVE: IBM CEO John Akers was photographed at the company's headquarters in Armonk, New York, by Gregory Heisler - contents page. CAPTION: Traders at Sanyo Securities in Tokyo use Japanese terminals -- but the heart of this high-tech system is an IBM mainframe, testament to Big Blue's prowess on its leading competitors' home turf. CAPTION: John Akers: "We took our eye off the ball." CAPTION: NO ONE TOO SMALL IBM no longer snubs the little guy. In remote Vinci, Italy, a customer gets a delivery through one of the local affiliates IBM uses to extend its reach. Opposite page: Small-business buyers learn to use the AS/400 minicomputer at the IBM center in Rochester, Minnesota; a rep advises the information systems director at a Los Angeles design school. CAPTION: See above. CAPTION: See above. CAPTION: LISTENING TO THE BUYERS Before bringing the new AS/400 to market, minicomputer czar Stephen Schwartz asked customers to help design it, and worked up more than 1,000 programs in a dozen languages. He sells almost two-thirds of the popular machines overseas. CAPTION: SPEECH THERAPIST As head of communication systems, Ellen Hancock is in charge of getting myriad IBM computers to talk to each other and to machines made by rivals -- a critical task as customers increasingly mix and match diverse equipment. CAPTION: TRUE CONFESSIONS U.S. marketing head George Conrades courts customers with ads that admit IBM was inattentive in the past. Under the new decentralized management structure, he did not show the ads to CEO Akers until the night before the campaign broke. CAPTION: GETTING AHEAD OF JAPAN Patrick Toole, chief of chip manufacturing, shows off the wafer that gave IBM a lead of several months over competitors in producing its four-megabit memory device -- the most complex DRAM ever made. ILLUSTRATION: photograph - table - graph CAPTION: Investor's snapshot: IBM. - Big Blue's ups and downs: world market share; revenue sources. 


Document fortu00020020328dl8e0036z


More Like This

 Article 15 *******************    



THE ULTIMATE COMPUTER GAME. (VIRTUAL REALITIES) 

By David Churbuck 
1,524 words 
5 February 1990
Forbes 
154 
English
Copyright Forbes Inc. 1990 

Why settle for the real thing if you can live in a dream world that is safer, cheaper and easier to manipulate? Computers will soon make succ a world possible. 

LIVE MINUTES into cyberspace and I'm submerged in a pool of computerized water, looking at a computerized fish finning in the far comer. 

"Try to go inside the fish, " suggests my handler in the physical world, Eric Lyons. He's director of technology at Autodesk, a Sausalito, Calif. outfit that makes computer software. 

I make a fist-the cyberspace command to grab objects-and the computer gets the message via electronic sensors in a glove on my hand. My eyes see a disembodied computerized hand pass through the fish's body. The fish sticks to my hand without putting up a fight. I pull my fist d towards my face, and the fish pops over my head. I'm inside a hollow fish with two eyes at the far end. 

Such is Autodesk's whimsical world of three-dimensional computer images. To create the 3-D effect, the system displays two images on miniature screens inside goggles worn by the user. This is the ultimate interface: The user can create what-if simulations without the inconvenience of keyboard commands or a mouse trackball. The simulation also looks a lot more real than what you would see on a conventional television tube. 

Vivid video games are one obvious use of the technology, but the engineers at Autodesk have in mind some less playful applications. An architect would be able to tour a building with a client, moving walls and doorways before plans are committed to paper. A city planner could see how much a skyscraper would block light. A surgeon might someday be able to practice his scalpel techniques with the system. The computer would read the movements in his fingers and show the effect on the organ he's resecting. 

The term "cyberspace" was coined by science fiction author William Gibson in his 1984 novel, Neuromancer, and adopted by Autodesk to describe its version of so-called virtual reality"; virtual, in computerese, describes a piece of hardware or software that has one form but is designed to give the illusion of another. VPL Research in Redwood City, Calif. is also working on commercial applications of virtual reality. Meanwhile, General Electric, NASA and the Army are developing a helicopter training simulator using goggles. Its vivid imagery of simulated crashes can make users physically ill. 

According to the visionaries and futurists who abound in Silicon Valley, cyberspace is where the computer users of the 21st century will telecommunicate, design and do research. Far out? It has a certain spacey quality. One testimonial-although of doubtful provenance-for-cyberspace comes from psychedclic guru Timothy Leary; he sees it as better than drugs, addictive but safe. The office atmosphere at Autodesk is a little hippyish even by California standards. Dogs roam the hallways. Programmers wear shorts and go barefoot. Evidently, though, the managers have their bare feet on the ground. They netted an astonishing 28% aftertax on fiscal 1989 sales of $117 million, and have won a following on Wall Street that puts a $926 million market valuation on the company. 

Most of Autodesk's profits come from software used in computer-aided design. Cyberspace is the outer fringe of that well-established industry. It is made possible, says Autodesk Chief Executive Alvar Green, by the "hundreds of man-years" already invested in Autocad, the company's flagship computer-aided design program. 

To play the cyberspace game one must don two pieces of electronic clothing. The first is a set of Eyephones, a prototype of which was invented in the mid-1960s by Ivan Sutherland, an electrical engineer who went on to found Evans & Sutherland, the vendor of simulation hardware and software. Eyephones consist of two small color television screens mounted side by side in a rubber headpiece similar to a diver's mask. On top of the headpiece is a blue plastic cube called a Polhemus 3-Space magnetic sensor. The sensor transmits data to the computer about the wearer's position in space: his x-, y-, and z-axes, yaw, pitch, and roll. A cable runs from the back of the headset to a computer. In the case of Autodesk's system, the computer is an ordinary Compaq 80386 equipped with two high-speed graphics processors from Matrox Electronic Systems. 

The second piece of clothing is the Dataglove, a single Spandex-rubber glove wired with fiber-optic cables. Another Polhemus sensor is mounted at the wrist to tell the computer where the wearer's hand is in space. As the hand is flexed, the light flow along each finger changes enough to be read by a sensor, which in turn reports to the computer. 

In the case of one demonstration program from Autodesk, reality consists of a 3-D image of an office, complete with desk and desk chair, drawn using Autocad. When the user slips on the Eyephones and Dataglove, he walks, in effect, into that drawing. His hand becomes visible on the eye screens as a disembodied computerized hand, floating a few feet in front of his face. There are only three basic commands. Point a finger, and you fly in that direction. Make a fist, and you can pick up whatever object the fist touches. Open the fist and the object will fall or fly away in any direction. Other companies doing research into such systems run their programs on sophisticated, expensive graphics workstations. In contrast, Autodesk built its system around the ubiquitous and affordable personal computer, coming up with a total price tag that could be about $30, 000 when the product hits the market in about a year. Autodesk's Lyons says his company will leave the exploration of more farout applications of cyberspace to other companies. For now, Autodesk wants to tic cyberspace to its strengths in computer design. It hopes to offer the system to architects who already use its software to produce blueprints. It also envisions applications in molecular engineering that would be enhancements of its Autocad packages. A molecule, drawn with Autocad and placed in cyberspace, could be viewed from any angle by a scientist equipped with Eyephones and a Dataglove. i think the first commercial application of cyberspace will be some type of arcade where people can go in and share an experience in some virtual reality," Lyons predicts. "We're already seeing some primitive implementations at animation houses such as Pixar. Those applications are far removed from things that could be possible in the distant future, like teleconferencing via fiber optics in the Bahamas without leaving your living room." 

Jaron Lanier, the man who claims to have coined the term virtual reality, is predicting a much braver new world. Lanier, 29, is a bear-like, blonddreadlocked high-school dropout and founder of private VPL. Lanier's company holds several patents on virtual reality devices, most notably the Dataglove. It has introduced a faster version of cyberspace called RB2 ("reality built for two"), which allows two people to meet in a common artificial reality. Lanier's system is a lot more powerful-and expensive-than Autodesk's. VPL leans on two Silicon Graphics Iris graphics computers, one for each eye, which can process graphic information at the rate of 20 frames per second, as opposed to Autodesk's 4 to 8. To do that, each computer has to be able to handle 80 million computations a second. The cost of the VPL system: $200,000 for a single participant. But for that money you get performance fast enough to trick the user into forgetting the physical world. 

One VPL customer is Greenleaf Medical Systems of Palo Alto, Calif., which in December began selling a $40,000 system, based on an Apple computer, to diagnose hand impairment with the Dataglove. But Lanier imagines far grander uses of the technology. What if the Dataglove covered not just the hand but the whole body? You could play a tennis match via wire, like chess by mail, only with much greater data transmission rates. Put Bjorn Borg and Boris Becker in VPL bodysuits and Eyephones, tape sensors to their rackets, connect them with fiber-optic pipes, and the next Wimbledon can take place in both Sweden and West Germany. 

Virtual tennis needs a lot more work to become a reality. Research is under way at the University of North Carolina, among other places, on a method to provide tactile feedback, so a user can touch computer-generated objects. Other advances will include three-dimensional sound, facial expression recognition, and eye tracking, so the computer will pan and zoom in response to eye movement, not head movement. 

For now, cyberspace is mostly a toy and a scientist's plaything, but it won't necessarily stay that way. If Autodesk succeeds in creating an application for the technology among its core of faithful Autocad users, it could become a mainstream technology and popular Pc tool within a few years. 

ILLUSTRATION: photograph 


Document fb00000020011115dm250003q


More Like This

 Article 16 *******************    



Technology & Medicine 

Bell Labs Confirms That New Form Of Matter Exists 

By John J. Keller 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
508 words 
8 February 1990
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B3 
English
(Copyright (c) 1990, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Researchers at American Telephone & Telegraph Co.'s Bell Laboratories confirmed an Israeli scientist's discovery of quasicrystals, a previously unknown solid form of matter. 

The new form of solids could lead to entirely new kinds of electronic and heavy industrial products, a Bell Laboratories researcher speculated. 

For centuries, scientists thought that solid matter came in only two forms: crystalline, in which the atoms are arranged in orderly rows, and amorphous, in which the atoms are in a jumble. Quasicrystals, discovered in 1984, had been deemed by many scientists to be just a defective form of crystalline matter. 

Not anymore, said Bell Labs. Refik Kortan, a researcher at Bell Labs' Materials Interface Research Department, was able to grow quasicrystals of an aluminum-cobalt-copper alloy -- and quite easily, according to Bell Labs. It said that this proves the natural existence of quasicrystalline matter and paves the way for new products made of the material. 

"Now we know that nature is not playing tricks and we can make actual products out of quasicrystals," said Lionel Kimerling, who heads the Bell Labs' department. "These are stable compounds and can last forever." 

He said the quasicrystalline materials have the hardness of quartz and have shown electrical properties that make them impervious to changes in temperatures. This, he said, could make them attractive for use in such products as precision electrical resistors and fuses. 

He also said that the construction industry is investigating the use of quasicrystalline aluminum-lithium alloys for lightweight and tough construction materials, abrasive products and longer-lasting ball bearings. 

However, it could be a long time before products using quasicrystals make it to the market, said a Bell Labs' spokesman. "Most of the applications are unimagined." Now research must focus on the full electrical conduction properties of quasicrystals to find out which devices could benefit from the materials. 

Quasicrystals appear radically different from other forms of matter when viewed under a microscope. Crystalline matter, such as diamonds or iron, shows up as a lattice of interlocking, symmetrical cubes of atoms. Amorphous matter, including metal alloys and glass, turns up as randomly grouped atoms with no particular order. 

But Daniel Schechtman, an Israeli scientist working for the U.S. Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and Technology, discovered that in quasicrystals the atoms cluster in an intricate, pentagon-shaped pattern. 

It had been assumed that groups of atoms arranged in pentagon shapes couldn't be packed together in an orderly way and thus the concept of quasicrystals was considered absurd a few years ago, the laboratories explained. 

A team of Bell Laboratories researchers examined the atomic arrangements in a quasicrystal with the aid of the powerful scanning-tunneling microscope. They also charted the positions of atoms by the way they deflected X-rays. The two procedures painted a picture of pentagon-shaped clusters of atoms packed together to form Mr. Schechtman's quasicrystals. 

Document j000000020011115dm280018u


More Like This

 Article 17 *******************    



Technology 

IBM Researchers `Write' With Atoms On a Metal Surface 

By Richard L. Hudson 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
365 words 
5 April 1990
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B4 
English
(Copyright (c) 1990, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

LONDON -- Researchers at International Business Machines Corp. achieved a milestone in ultramicroscopic manufacturing, by "writing" with individual atoms on a metal surface. 

The researchers used a special IBM-invented microscope to position individual atoms of xenon gas precisely on a nickel plate. They arranged the xenon atoms into patterns -- for instance, tracing out the letters "IBM" in lines one atom wide. 

The technological feat, described in today's issue of Nature, a weekly British science journal, is the latest of several recent steps towards the ultimate in micromanufacturing: precise manipulation of individual atoms and molecules. Scientists talk of one day being able to make ultrasmall electronic circuitry, with dimensions of just one atom or molecule. By comparison, the circuitry in today's top-performance computer chips is at least 1,000 times more coarse. In theory, smaller circuitry permits faster, less expensive and more complex computing. 

But at the moment, such research is more laboratory curiosity than commercial reality. In their Nature report, the IBM researchers said use of their technique may be limited to certain types of atoms and molecules. Also, the equipment they used is too costly and complex to contemplate commercial applications anytime soon. 

The technique, developed at IBM's Almaden Research Center in San Jose, Calif., uses the so-called scanning tunnelling microscope. The device, for whose invention two IBM scientists shared a Nobel Prize in 1987, is normally used in physics and materials laboratories to produce images of individual atoms and molecules. The microscope has a single-atom tip that, when energized by a tiny electric current, can trace the atomic surface contours of many materials. 

By simply increasing the electric current passing through the tip, the Almaden researchers converted the device from a "reader" of atomic structures to a "writer." Specifically, the researchers scattered xenon atoms at random over a nickel surface, and then used the microscope's tip to drag each xenon atom into its desired position on the nickel surface. The result was uniform lines of closely spaced xenon atoms on top of the nickel surface. 

Document j000000020011115dm45008xh


More Like This

 Article 18 *******************    


AMERICA'S HOT YOUNG SCIENTISTS. (COVER STORY) 

By Gene Bylinsky 
5,516 words 
8 October 1990
Fortune 
56 
English
Copyright Time Inc. 1990 

SOMETIMES THE U.S. underestimates its own strength. In this age of increasing global competition, American science still sets the pace. According to the National Science Foundation, Americans invest more in R&D than the Japanese, Germans, British, and French combined. And that's not counting military research. Of the estimated $108 billion the U.S. will spend this year on civilian R&D, industry will shell out roughly $74 billion to pay for everything from next year's products to pure cogitation at universities and corporate brainpower palaces like Bell Labs. 

As the work of the young scientists in the following pages attests, money thus invested pays spectacular dividends -- in knowledge today, and other forms of prosperity soon. FORTUNE chose these men and women from scores of candidates nominated by senior scientists at universities, corporations, and federal labs. All the young scientists have achieved important breakthroughs; several are likely candidates for Nobel Prizes by the year 2000. 

Already some of their work has found practical application. After the discovery of the electron, it took electronics nearly a century to emerge; but today, in fields from biotechnology to quantum mechanics, the time from lab bench to factory floor seems closer to nanoseconds. Gone is the standoffishness that used to isolate "pure scientists" from technicians; smart corporations are learning to encourage both types to speed the application of new knowledge. 

America continues to act as a magnet for brilliant intellects. Three of the 12 young scientists shown are natives of other lands. They come for the advanced labs and the stimulation of each other's company: The U.S. scientific and engineering community is nearly a million strong, more than twice the size of Germany's or Japan's. They come not least because America, unlike more hierarchical societies, offers an environment where scientists can make names for themselves at a tender age. R&D spending keeps rising year after year, and the competition for funds is intense among the battalions of smart baby-boomers hoping to forge the future in the crucible of their minds. 

PETER G. SCHULTZ, 34 

HOW TO CAPITALIZE ON BODY CHEMISTRY 

This Berkeley chemist has created a link between biology and commerce that may prove as important as yeast in baking. He showed that antibodies, proteins the immune system makes to flag invaders such as viruses and bacteria, can be harnessed as catalysts to help make chemicals and drugs. The computer-simulated time sequence at right illustrates a process he devised: A yellow molecule, concocted in the lab and injected into the bloodstream of a mouse, stimulates the production of antibodies -- the massive red, blue, and purple structures -- to be extracted for use as catalysts. 

Catalysts have long been a basic tool of the chemist. Nature's most sophisticated catalysts are enzymes, the biological substances crucial to digestion and other life processes. Industry, meanwhile, has relied mainly on catalysts that are chemically clumsier and less efficient, such as the metals used in making high-test gasoline. 

Five years ago Schultz conceived a way to enlist the immune systems of living creatures to generate potent catalysts. He begins by analyzing the structure of a chemical -- say, a protein that he wants to cut up. During this cleaving reaction, each molecule of the protein passes through unstable configurations, known as transition states. In a test tube, Schultz creates molecules that mimic these configurations (the yellow molecules shown). Then he injects them into mice, which produce antibodies to fend off the foreign matter. Extracted and purified, the antibodies are powerful catalysts for the cleaving process. 

Schultz almost set the house on fire experimenting with chemicals. He was near the top of his class at Caltech, but in his junior year he began to wonder if college was worth the trouble. After a year off, working in an Ohio aluminum foundry where temperatures hit 120 degrees, he decided to give school another try. He soon embarked on his first major project, an experiment involving enzymes. 

With other researchers, Schultz has already produced catalytic antibodies that can speed a millionfold the splitting of esters, basic compounds used in drugmaking. Pharmaceutical companies are racing to develop new drugs using his methods. A spectacular result that may be possible: medicine to dissolve cholesterol plaques in blood vessels. Schultz was designated America's outstanding young scientist in 1988 by the National Science Foundation and is an assistant professor at the University of California. He also works at Affymax, a privately owned Palo Alto, California, company he helped start, which is looking for ways to speed up the discovery of drugs. 

RODNEY A.BROOKS, 35 

HORDES OF TINY ROBOTS 

If modern electronics is so advanced, why have the robotic butlers and cooks that have been predicted for decades failed to materialize? Brooks, an Australian-born associate professor of computer science at MIT, thinks robotics engineers have been on the wrong track. They've been trying to build machines in the human image: robots with a computer for a brain, an electronic vision system for eyes, and arms and legs all centrally coordinated. Such machines have proved too costly and slow-witted to be applied beyond simple, repetitive tasks such as welding cars. 

Brooks created a huge stir in the robotics world by taking as his model not humans but the humble insect. Insects rely on their brains far less than higher species; they jump, crawl, and respond to environmental stimuli by using other parts of their nervous systems that work almost autonomously. The nerves typically run along the underside of the creature's body; to complement them, nature equips insects with widely distributed sensors, including "ears" in such bizarre places as the abdomen, as in grasshoppers and moths, and on the front legs, as in crickets. 

With help from students, Brooks has imitated this distributed intelligence in some of the smallest robots built. The six-legged, foot-long robot shown is named Genghis. In an MIT lab it creeps toward a human visitor after spotting him with infrared eyes. It detects obstacles in its path with antennalike whiskers, and clambers over them by "feeling" them with sensors in its legs. 

Brooks envisions building hordes of tiny, low-cost robots to tackle specialized tasks, such as scouring barnacles off the hulls of ships or fanning out across the plains of Mars as scientific scouts. Minute robots might be injected into the bloodstream to perform surgery from within. A wacky dream? Ross Perot, for one, doesn't think so. He set up Gnat Robot Corp. to help Brooks's wee automatons establish a beachhead in the market. 

SHARON R. LONG, 39 

WHY PLANTS TALK 

With each generation, more and more talented women move into the sciences; FORTUNE has chosen three for these pages. Sharon Long has shown an uncanny ability to use the tools of one discipline to solve mysteries in another. Like several of FORTUNE's top scientists, she switched fields early in her career, moving into molecular genetics after mastering chemistry and developmental biology at Caltech, Yale, and Harvard. Today she is an associate professor of biology at Stanford. 

Each year the world's farmers spread nearly 80 million tons of nitrogen fertilizer on their crops to jump-start growth. Long's research may make it possible to start weaning agriculture off the fertilizer habit by equipping major food crops with microscopic fertilizer factories. A few crops, such as soybeans and alfalfa, already make their own fertilizer by working symbiotically with a bacterium called rhizobium. The bacteria reside in nodules in the plants' roots. (The mass in the photo is a nodule; individual cells show up green and bacteria, orange.) The bacteria extract nitrogen from the air -- something the plant can't do -- and supply it to the plant as ammonia, the version of nitrogen plants use for growth. In exchange, the plants provide the bacteria a place to stay and nourish them with sugars produced through photosynthesis. 

The process by which the plant locates rhizobium bacteria in the soil and forms nodules they can inhabit involves chemical communication between bacterium and plant. Charting the details of that conversation could be the first step in getting crops such as corn, wheat, and rice to develop the ability to nourish themselves. Using imaginative combinations of molecular biology and electrophysiology, Long is decoding the rhizobium-alfalfa conversation. Four years ago she and her colleagues found the signal from the plant that starts the dialogue. It turned out to be a molecule of flavonoid -- a bright yellow substance that ancient Romans used as a dye. The message it sends to the bacteria, in essence: "Rhizobium, come to work!" 

In response, Long recently proved, rhizobium near the alfalfa roots emit a chemical signal of their own. They tell the plant: "We got your message and we're on our way. Start preparing nodules." Says Long: "I like to think of it as a dialogue in a play. We've got the scenery. We've got the first sentence. We've got the second sentence. Now we want to know the reply. We'll see if the third sentence leads to a lot of furniture rearrangement." Eventually, genes that enable plants to hold such dialogues could be inserted into crops that don't make nodules for rhizobium now. That, in turn, could change the face of agriculture. 

MICHAEL H. FREEDMAN, 38 

MASTER OF DIMENSIONS 

This math wizard hated numbers in high school. "I resented them as being artificial and getting in the way," Freedman says. His great gift, the ability to think geometrically rather than numerically, led to a historic breakthrough in topology that won him the National Medal of Science and a five-year "genius grant" from the MacArthur Foundation. 

Topology is sometimes called "rubber sheet geometry." It is the branch of pure mathematics that deals with the qualities of objects rather than their sizes and shapes: Topologists study features that can't be lost if an object is stretched, twisted, or otherwise deformed. In this way of looking at the world, a doughnut and a coffee cup are the same because each has only one hole. 

A goal of topology is to classify multidimensional surfaces, which practitioners call manifolds. Everyday forms, such as spheres, can exist in any number of dimensions: To imagine what is meant by an eight-dimensional sphere, think of a golf ball, and add to its usual three dimensions measures for its age, color, temperature, weight, and bounciness. (At left is a computer rendition of a doughnut in 4-D space.) 

A century ago the great French mathematician Henri Poincare devised a clever way to classify manifolds. He would imagine a loop of string on the surface and determine how far the loop could be shrunk. On a sphere, for instance, any loop can shrink to a point; but on a doughnutlike torus, a loop that encircles the hole can't shrink smaller than the hole's circumference. Hence, the sphere and the torus are said to belong to different groups. 

Three-dimensional manifolds are a special headache for topologists. They can be stretched and folded so many ways that no one has been able to classify them. In 1904, Poincare outlined a set of simple tests and challenged colleagues to prove that any 3-D manifold, no matter how distorted, is a sphere if it satisfies the tests. This challenge is called the Poincare conjecture; paradoxically, mathematicians were able to prove it only for spheres of five dimensions or more. Freedman was the first to create a proof for four-dimensional spheres. Part of his reasoning: One should be able to shrink to a point not only loops but also two-dimensional spheres embedded in the 4-D manifold. The work consumed seven years; while his discovery has no concrete application as yet, Freedman, a professor at the University of California at San Diego, says: "All mathematics has practical potential." Example: knot theory, a branch of topology devoted to classifying knots. Long thought arcane, it is now hugely important to biochemists. They use it to explain how strands of DNA that lie jumbled like garden hose in the nuclei of living cells can divide without getting hopelessly snarled. 

SUSAN SOLOMON, 34, 

SOLVING THE RIDDLE OF THE OZONE HOLE 

As a 10-year-old growing up in a middle-class Chicago neighborhood, Solomon remembers being entranced by Jacques Cousteau's televised adventures: "I decided right then that science was the most wonderful thing you could do in the world." Now her work in chemistry is bringing her to the question of life's survival on earth. 

In 1985, Solomon was a researcher at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Boulder, Colorado, when scientists detected an ozone hole over the South Pole. This is a gap in the atmosphere's ozone layer, located between the altitudes of 32,000 and 74,000 feet, which normally shields the earth from the sun's ultraviolet radiation. Even in moderate doses, such radiation can cause skin cancer; unblocked by the atmosphere, it would wipe out life on earth. "The discovery was a tremendous shock," Solomon remembers. "We had been predicting a 5% to 10% ozone depletion in 50 to 100 years. All of a sudden we were observing a 50% depletion." (In the satellite image of Antarctica above, the ozone hole is the gray and dark-blue region near the crosshairs. 

Scientists suspected the damage was caused by chlorofluorocarbons, man-made gases widely used in refrigerators, aerosol cans, and the making of semiconductors. But the process by which so much ozone disappeared was a mystery. Like many chemists around the world, Solomon spent months on the problem. 

The critical insight hit her at a lecture in San Francisco on polar stratospheric clouds. Until then, these airborne formations of ice crystals were little more than a scientific curiosity whose iridescent beauty gave them the nickname mother-of-pearl clouds. But as the lecturer flashed slides of the cloud layer, recalls Solomon, "I suddenly started thinking, `Those clouds are much more extensive in Antarctica than anywhere else; what if ozone depletion takes place when CFC derivatives react on the cloud surfaces?' " She organized an expedition to Antarctica to gather data; the trip and other experiments brought confirmation for her theory within a year. Industrialized nations soon began regulating CFC use, and last year Solomon received the Department of Commerce's gold medal for "impeccable science in the cause of humankind." 

Lately she has shifted her attention to the Arctic, where ozone depletion may threaten the Northern Hemisphere. Although the ozone layer is constantly replenished in the atmosphere, this happens at a rate far too slow to compensate for the damage done by humans. The only solution, Solomon believes, is virtual prohibition of the offending chemicals, and she praises recent efforts by chemical manufacturers to develop CFC substitutes. 

BONNIE ANN WALLACE, 39 

THE GATES OF THE CELL 

Killer maladies such as cystic fibrosis, cancer, and heart disease are thought to disrupt the pumping of nutrients and other substances through the walls of the body's cells. The apparently simple question of how this flow works baffled researchers for generations. In 1988, Wallace found the solution by analyzing in exquisite detail the structure of a molecule that works as a supply channel in a cell wall. She mapped each of its 520 atoms and 602 atomic bonds, and also discovered that the molecule opens and closes a passage through its center by changing shape. (Two such molecules appear behind Wallace in the computer-generated image at left.) 

Wallace likens the molecule to a Chinese finger puzzle. When it is letting in nourishment, it becomes short and squat, allowing electrically charged particles known as ions to pass through the hole in its center. At other times it becomes long and thin so the hole is too narrow for ions to pass. 

Even as a small girl in Greenwich, Connecticut, Wallace always wanted to know how things worked. She was so impressive as a high school chemist that a teacher allowed her to do experiments her own way. She graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York, earned a Ph.D. at Yale, and eventually returned to Rensselaer as a professor. For her study of ion channels she chose gramicidin, an early antibiotic that has fallen into relative disuse because it produces serious side effects when taken internally. Applying a battery of techniques from X-ray diffraction to infrared spectroscopy, Wallace and her colleagues traced cesium ions passing through molecules of the drug. 

An immediate benefit of Wallace's research may be to rehabilitate gramicidin as an antibiotic for general use. The drug works by puncturing holes in bacteria, allowing ions to escape so the bacteria deflate like balloons; its side effects derive, apparently, from an unfortunate tendency to wreak similar havoc on human cells. Wallace and her associates are trying to make the drug more selective in what it kills. 

Hundreds of other channel molecules beckon to be investigated. Cystic fibrosis, a congenital disease that afflicts 17,000 Americans, recently has been found to result from a poorly regulated flow of chloride ions into the cells of the lungs. Understanding how the disease sabotages channel molecules may eventually lead researchers to a cure. 

PAUL A. BOTTOMLEY, 37 

A NEW WINDOW INTO THE BODY 

One afternoon in 1977, after months of preparation, Bottomley stuck his arm into an experimental nuclear magnetic resonance machine. The technology had been developed for chemical analysis, but the young physicist and his co-workers believed it could be used as a window into the human body. He proved that by producing a vivid cross section of his left wrist on the display of a computer hooked to the machine. 

A native of Melbourne, Australia, who started out in chemistry and switched to physics, Bottomley did the experiment at England's Nottingham University. The following year he moved to the U.S. in search of a broader scientific community, better equipment, and a higher salary. After two years at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, he joined General Electric's research and development center in Schenectady, New York. By 1982 he and his colleagues had built a magnetic resonance machine powerful enough to produce high-resolution images of the human head. When the machine was switched on, it made images so much better than expected that the ordinarily laconic Bottomley couldn't contain his enthusiasm. He recalls: "I got so excited that I grabbed a cleaning man by the shoulders in the hallway and dragged him in to look." 

Today massive machines for magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, let doctors see into the body and diagnose disease without surgery, X-rays, or the injection of radioactive dye. (Shown in the photo: a cross section of the human chest.) Meanwhile, Bottomley has pioneered what is known as magnetic resonance spectroscopy. His goal is to reveal the body's living chemistry, extending MRI technique to record not only physical features within the body but also biochemical changes that accompany -- and sometimes precede -- the symptoms of disease. 

In 1985, Bottomley led a team that produced the first such analysis of the beating heart. The procedure revealed both the organ itself and details of its chemistry by tracing the distribution of chemical by-products of the heart's exertions. Such information may allow cardiologists to spot regions of the heart damaged by a heart attack and to monitor the effect of heart medications on the organ's metabolism -- action that can't easily be observed with other diagnostic techniques. Using the same method, oncologists may be able to monitor tumors to gauge the effectiveness of cancer drugs. 

Both imaging and spectroscopy are accomplished with the same MRI machine, which surrounds the patient with huge magnets. So powerful is the magnetic field that the nuclei of atoms in the patient's body line up parallel to it. A coil in the machine then jolts the nuclei with high-frequency radio waves, causing them to resonate like infinitesimal tuning forks. They produce a faint radio signal that is amplified, recorded, and translated into an image or a diagnostic chart. Medical spectroscopy is just beginning to find its way into clinical experiments, but when it is perfected and its findings better understood, it could usher in an age of nearly instantaneous diagnosis. 

DONALD M. EIGLER, 37 

THE MAN WHO MOVES ATOMS 

Around 400 B.C. the Greek philosopher Democritus postulated the existence of an ultimate "uncuttable" particle of matter he named the atom. It has taken 24 centuries for humans to actually seize one and move it. Physicist Eigler did, at IBM's Almaden Research Center in San Jose, California, last November. Not only has he succeeded at moving individual atoms but he has also begun to assemble them in primitive structures, such as the row shown. 

Eigler used a Nobel Prize-winning IBM invention, the scanning tunneling electron microscope. That remarkable instrument, perfected in the early 1980s, made atoms on surfaces clearly visible for the first time. It works by positioning a fine metal probe next to the material under observation. A weak voltage applied between the tip and the material causes electrons to flow between the two; tunneling refers to the quantum mechanical process by which the electrons cross the gap. As the tip is moved along the surface, it reveals the contours of the atoms below. 

Scientists suspected that the microscope could be used to rearrange atoms. In 1987 a team at AT&T's Bell Laboratories reported having moved a germanium atom inadvertently picked up by the microscope tip. But they were unable to control the phenomenon, in part because atoms at room temperature are too energetic for the microscope to grab -- they literally jump away. Eigler, meanwhile, modified a microscope to operate in a vacuum at temperatures near absolute zero, conditions under which atoms are tamer. The project took five years; he says his knack for building things derives from childhood training by his father, an aerospace engineer. 

The experiment involved a platinum sheet that had been exposed to the heavy gas xenon. The microscope revealed xenon atoms scattered on the platinum like soccer balls on a frozen playing field. Eigler found that he could reposition the atoms, one by one, by moving the microscope tip close and dragging them along. 

His first application of the technique was pure showmanship: He arranged 35 atoms to spell out the IBM logo in letters one-500,000th the size of those on this page. Next he created the first man-made atomic cluster, seven xenon atoms bound in a row by shared electrons (see photo). Ultimately, atoms may serve as building blocks for ultrasmall electronic circuits; Eigler is inching toward such a feat by teaching himself to assemble simple molecules, such as those of carbon dioxide, an atom at a time. 

BJARNE STROUSTRUP, 39 

MAKING COMPUTERS WORK THE WAY PEOPLE DO 

Growing up in a working-class family in Aarhus, Denmark, Stroustrup was more interested in soccer than schoolwork until a gifted teacher guided him into math. Computers became his passion in college. While he was earning a Ph.D. at Cambridge, his work on software for computer networks caught the eye of recruiters from Bell Labs. In 1979 they asked him to join their famous institution, explaining, in typical Bell Labs fashion, that his salary would be paid for a year and then he would be asked what area he'd like to pursue. 

A few years later Stroustrup startled the technical world with a programming language, C++, that is fast becoming computing's lingua franca. It is part of a software revolution, known as object-oriented programming, that is going on unbeknownst to ordinary users. Traditionally, programmers took pride in their ability to distill the world's complexities into linear, step-by-step instructions that computers can follow with their blindingly fast but simple brains. That approach has led to soaring costs and long delays in the creation of large programs, such as those that control the switching of phone calls. Object-oriented programming, in contrast, vastly simplifies human interaction with the machine by making computers work more the way people think. It gives the programmer sets of tools that he or she can readily manipulate. 

Say a programmer wants to create a new type of "window" for framing data on the screen. Doing so in a traditional language would mean writing complex and lengthy commands. In C++ a simple command, OPEN A WINDOW, causes the machine to call up other windows that have been defined previously; the new window automatically inherits their attributes, and the programmer customizes it by varying a few. The details remain hidden from the programmer's view, much as the intricacies of weaving and dyeing cloth are hidden from a tailor. Says Stroustrup: "What I deal in is control of complexity." 

Little wonder that the use of C++ is doubling every eight months. It has been used to program a wide range of machines, from supercomputers to lowly PCs (a retail version of C++ costs less than $100). It helped make possible the versatile graphics of Apple's Macintosh line and has worked its way into products from Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystems. What delights Stroustrup most is the rapid spread of C++ in developing countries. He gets fan mail from Hunan and inquiries from South America, and his book on C++ is being translated into Serbo-Croatian. A key to its appeal, he explains, is that C++ runs much more efficiently than other sophisticated languages on ordinary personal computers: "It's in essence low tech. You no longer need a superduper workstation to do superduper work." 

MARK A. REED, 35 

CAGING AN ELECTRON 

With astonishing speed, humans are gaining mastery over the tiniest manifestations of matter. Physicist Reed has succeeded in trapping individual electrons and controlling their actions. His goal: to build computer memory and logic cells so tiny that more than a billion would fit in a period on this page. 

Three years ago, at Texas Instruments' central research laboratories in Dallas, he constructed the first so-called quantum dot, a box only ten times the diameter of an atom on a side. Beginning with a sandwichlike wafer of gallium arsenide and related materials, he used sophisticated chip-etching techniques to carve the thicker towerlike structures shown in the electron micrograph above. Each tower embodies a quantum dot. By applying a small voltage to the tower, Reed is able to imprison a single electron within it. 

At that infinitesimal scale, quantum effects reign. Acting less like a particle than like a wave, the electron keeps sloshing inside its quantum cage. Reed can also control the sides of the dot. By applying an electrical potential to one of the walls, he can make it "transparent" to the captured electron so that the electron can exit, or tunnel, into an adjoining quantum dot or be sent elsewhere via a gallium-arsenide structure called a quantum wire. 

The quantum dot can serve as the smallest memory cell ever devised: An electron's presence can stand for a binary 1 or YES; its absence can represent 0 or NO. Many scientists think chips incorporating the dots will make possible the next major leap in electronics. Conventional semiconductor chips, which work by channeling whole flows of electrons, are expected to reach the limits of miniaturization by the end of the decade. A shift to quantum chips could make possible a plethora of exotic devices -- from hand-held supercomputers to capacious memory units the size of a walnut. But while other companies and some universities already have built rudimentary quantum transistors, no one knows whether quantum chips can be economically mass-produced. For the time being, says Reed, now a professor at Yale, "these structures are miniature laboratories for doing quantum mechanics -- they're just tremendous fun." 

MARC R. MONTMINY, 34 

A CHEMICAL KEY TO MENTAL DISORDERS 

The brain is an electrochemical caldron where billions of neurons fire tiny electrical pulses. The chemicals that carry and modulate those pulses govern our health, our emotions, and our thoughts in ways science is only beginning to understand. In his lab at the Salk Institute in LaJolla, California, Montminy has analyzed the production of a key brain chemical, somatostatin. Too much somatostatin has been linked to dwarfism and anorexia nervosa, the compulsive refusal to eat; too little is associated with clinical depression and the devastating symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. 

By studying genes within brain cells, Montminy showed how stimuli -- such as the everyday act of drinking coffee -- can help activate a DNA segment that in turn initiates somatostatin production. The gene is turned on and off by a kind of molecular switch -- a molecule that straddles the DNA and blocks it from working, somewhat like the Denver boot police use to immobilize a scofflaw's car. Montminy has analyzed the switch (a map of the molecule appears behind him) and shown how it can be locked and unlocked chemically, knowledge that may speed the search for an Alzheimer's cure. 

Montminy's work could lead to other new medicines, even for the common cold. Switches like those he discovered occur in cold and other types of viruses. By developing drugs that replace those switches with defective ones -- locks that won't open -- science may be able to prevent cold viruses from reproducing. 

Growing up in Lewiston, Maine, Montminy wanted to be a doctor. He remembers borrowing a blood pressure cuff from his mother, a nurse, at age 8 and taking it to school to show his classmates. He studied medicine at Tufts but later switched to neurochemistry in the belief that he could help more people by doing research. That may prove spectacularly right. 

ALAN DRESSLER, 42. 

ON THE TRAIL OF THE GREAT ATTRACTOR 

He became hooked on astronomy as a 5-year-old boy, the moment he saw the majestic rings of Saturn through a telescope in Cincinnati's Hyde Park. Now a staff astronomer at the Carnegie Observatories in Pasadena, California, Dressler is shaking up conventional astronomical wisdom. 

In the nearby Andromeda galaxy, he helped locate a black hole, a celestial abyss that sucks in light and matter like a cosmic vacuum cleaner. Then, in 1986, he and his team discovered an object that is like something straight out of science fiction. The Great Attractor is a mass of dark matter, unimaginably large, 200 million light-years from Earth. The Attractor is invisible -- it makes its presence known only through its immense gravitational tug on galaxies. Our home galaxy, the Milky Way, is one of thousands in its grip. 

This finding raises important questions about the Big Bang, the huge explosion believed to have started the universe. Cosmologists, who study its origin, have long assumed that the Big Bang spread matter smoothly across the heavens. Now Dressler has demonstrated the universe to be lumpy, like oatmeal. "There must be an element of the Big Bang we don't understand," he says. "It seems unlikely that the universe could have gone from smooth to its current state. For something as vast as the Great Attractor to have formed, either the primordial cosmos had larger structures than we previously thought, or the universe has taken longer to evolve." 

Dressler's discovery was based on years of work, with colleague Sandra Faber, at Carnegie's Las Campanas Observatory high in the Andes Mountains of Chile. The air at that remote site is so clear, says Dressler, that one can read a newspaper by the light of the Milky Way. Clearly visible overhead are the galaxy's millions of stars, deep dark rifts, and objects such as the Eta Carina nebula (see photo). Dressler says the sight can transfix an observer: "It becomes an emotional experience." 

What moves him most profoundly, however, is not the spectacle of the heavens but the human mind: "Most people are awed by the size of the universe and our being so small. My view is completely opposite. The mind is the most complex thing we know of -- complexity resides not out there but here, in our biology and our minds. The marvelous thing is that we can discover, understand, and contemplate the universe." 

CAPTION: AMERICA'S HOT YOUNG SCIENTISTS These men and women give the U.S. an edge in the race for global advantage Top astronomer Alan Dressler peers into the origins of the cosmos. CAPTION: "Most people are awed by the size of the universe and our being so small. My view is completely opposite. The mind is the most complex thing we know of." ILLUSTRATION: portrait CAPTION: Peter G. Schultz; Rodney A. Brooks; Sharon R. Long; Michael H. - Freedman. (portrait) - Susan Solomon; Bonnie Ann Wallace; Paul A. Bottomley; Donald M. - Eigler. (portrait) - Bjarne Stroustrup; Mark A. Reed; Marc R. Montminy; Alan Dressler. - (portrait) 


Document fortu00020020328dma8006v7


More Like This

 Article 19 *******************    



Developments to Watch THIS MICROSCOPE HAS A NEW LENS ON LIFE 

EDITED BY WILLIAM D. MARBACH 
186 words 
5 November 1990
Business Week 
Pg. 151 
Vol. Number 3186 
English
Copyright 1990 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Nearly a decade after the scanning tunneling microscope (STM) was invented at IBM's Zurich laboratory, the technology continues to open new frontiers. The latest: an STM-derived microscope that will enable scientists to watch chemical processes at the atomic level in living cells. 

Ordinary electron microscopes emit powerful beams that damage or destroy biological specimens, but IBM's new device fires a less harmful beam. First-generation STMs have a needle with a superfine point that can trace the contours of individual atoms. The new instrument, developed by a team headed by Hans-Werner Fink of IBM's Zurich lab, uses a similar needle to shoot its electron beam at a specimen. 

The beam doesn't penetrate biological samples, as X-rays do--it casts a shadow on a fluorescent-screen detector. Around the shadow's edges is an interference pattern, similar to those that produce holograms. Fink's group is working on computer software to translate the patterns into three-dimensional images for display on a computer screen. 

Document bw00000020011119dmb5004w0


More Like This

 Article 20 *******************    



LEISURE & ARTS 

Bookshelf: Etymology and Immortality 

By Jim Holt 
867 words 
14 November 1990
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE A14 
English
(Copyright (c) 1990, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

To be an amateur etymologist all you need is an armchair and a decent dictionary. Even the latter is not strictly necessary, but there are certain risks in relying entirely on fancy. William Safire, the New York Times' self-styled "word maven," learned this to his chagrin a few years back when he wrote that "homosexual" derived from homo, the Latin word for man. That was not a bad guess, but as any number of outraged readers pointed out, the root is the Greek homos, meaning "same." 

I would be surprised if Lewis Thomas were to commit such a howler. A former president of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York and author of such marvelous books as "Lives of a Cell," Dr. Thomas has by his own admission been "enchanted and obsessed" with etymology for more than 20 years. For a while he kept track of the histories of words with a tabletop computer; three years ago, however, the chimney of his house caught fire, melting the computer and fusing it to his desk "like an item of found art." He then resumed his etymological investigations on yellow legal pads. 

The result is "Et Cetera, Et Cetera: Notes of a Word-Watcher" (Little, Brown, 192 pages, $17.95), a collection of 40 little essays, by turns lyrical and humorous, that explain how various clusters of English words go back to their primeval roots. These roots come from a reconstructed language spoken some 6,000 years ago called Indo-European, the source of almost every Western language except Basque and Magyar, and of such non-Western ones as Iranian and Sanskrit. (Scholars now are trying to reconstruct an even more primitive language, spoken maybe 100,000 years ago, which they believe to be the ancestor of every last dialect in the world today -- the Mother Tongue of Us All, as it were.) 

Dr. Thomas tries to show that the "wild old words" of Indo-European are "still alive and pulsating, still delivering their message" in contemporary English. This is a seductive idea, albeit one that those who do not believe in a collective unconscious may jib at. But only in the coda to his book does the author really strain credulity, when he declares his half-scientific, half-mystical conviction that the Earth is "a sort of immense round organism" with its own mind. He even has a clue to what the Earth might be thinking, although this turns out to be less than breathtaking. 

Those who find the image of Earth as one big intelligent creature a bit on the creepy side are liable to be still more discomfited by the idea of the entire cosmos as a living, thinking entity. Yet that is the vision motivating a network of scientific mavericks, utopians and kooks who are busy cooking up some fairly appalling plans for remaking man and nature in the not-so-distant future. Their ultimate aim is to gain control of all forces and matter in all logically possible universes. 

I am glad that Ed Regis has been keeping an eye on them. His "Great Mambo Chicken and the Transhuman Condition: Science Slightly Over the Edge" (Addison-Wesley, 308 pages, $18.95) is a fascinating account of their designs for attaining immortality, abolishing scarcity, transcending our biological nature and overhauling space -- all within the next 50 years. 

If you feel uncertain whether you will live long enough to enter their scientific Garden of Eden, do not abandon hope. Simply make arrangements to have your head cut off when you die and frozen in a vat of liquid nitrogen within an earthquake-proof "cephalarium." (This service is already provided by various "life-extension foundations," whose macabre activities Mr. Regis delights in describing.) A few decades down the line your brain will be thawed out, fixed up by an army of molecule-sized robots, and lodged in a newly cloned anatomy. 

The little robots, by the way, will be only one of the fruits of nanotechnology (from nanos, Greek for "dwarf"). By exploiting the principle behind DNA, claims the Stanford University scientist who came up with the nanotech idea, we will be able to alter the structure of matter atom by atom and fabricate literally anything in unlimited quantities. Imagine . . . endless foie gras without torturing geese! Chateau d'Yquem for the masses! 

Those who, like George Bernard Shaw, regard the idea of bodily immortality as an "unimaginable horror" are soon to have the option of downloading themselves into a computer -- thereby, in effect, becoming pure spirit. 

Other projects contemplated by the characters Mr. Regis writes about make Star Wars look like falling off a log. They include: disassembling Jupiter and using its matter to build an energy-conserving shell around the solar system; hitching rides to other galaxies on interstellar comets; and creating celestial cities in giant cylinders floating in space. 

The only thing these would-be Masters of the Universe have failed to consider is how to finance their schemes. Perhaps Mr. Regis should have thrown in a chapter on supply-side economics. 

--- 

Mr. Holt is a columnist for the Literary Review (London). 

Document j000000020011115dmbe00seg


More Like This

 Article 21 *******************    



The Best of 1990 THE BEST OF 1990 

1,934 words 
14 January 1991
Business Week 
Pg. 123 
Vol. Number 3195 
English
Copyright 1991 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

It's amazing what wonders applied imagination can work. In the following pages, you'll find it reflected in the most surprising ways and places. A hightech, low-price razor. A powerful computer workstation from a highly unlikely source. A hard-sided golf bag and a computer rn by laser light. Two immigrants' solution to VCR programming madness. A wonderfully designed voting machine. A conservative banking strategy criticized in the '80s that's becoming the gold standard for the '90s. A gutsey bet on revolutionary manufacturing technology that catapulted an upstart into the big leagues. A fast-food company tutoring kids. A dynamic new convention center with solaring twin towers. These are soem of the excitig achievements for 1990. BUSINESS WEEK asked its bureaus to nominate the year's outstanding performers. The results make a dazzling package. 

Photograph: RAZOR'S EDGE; Distinctive design, new technology, and super marketing skyrocketed Gillette's Sensor to commerical heights. It grabbed nearly 10% of the razor market. NEXT: A sensor designed for women? Photograph: WORKHORSE; IBM's new RS/6000 workstation has DEC and sun scrambling. Based on a new superfast RISC microchip, IBM's machine gave it a nice piece of the $8 billion workstation market. Photograph: BEST SANDWICH; Burger King's BK Broiler is riding the health-food craze with its broiled, not fried, chicken sandwich. It has fewer calories and less fat than the competition. Photograph: DREAMMOBILE; Honda's Acura NSX is leaving the Lamborghini and Ferrari in the dust. It handles better, cost less ($61,000), and uses far more advanced technology. Only 3,000 available in the U.S. Photograph: EASY RIDER; The Cross bike offers the sturdiness of a mountian bike and the lightness of a racer. It combines comfort and pedaling ease. At abut $300, manufacturers are targeting the aging thirtysomething crowd. Photograph: PLASTIC APPEAL; AT&T's Universla Card signed up 3.7 million people with its 10% telephone discount and no annual fee for life. But with the recession, will new cardholders pay their bills on time? Photograph: SLAP'S DASH; Slap wraps flashed across the kiddie-scope. Cloth-covered pieces of metal that slap aroud wrists or ankles, they are far cheaper at $2.50 than Nintendo or Ninja Turtles. Watch out for cheap knockoffs. Real slap wraps are made by Main Street Toy. Others have been know to slice and dice. Photograph: HEAT EASE; The Encore Wall Thermostat by Cadet Manufacturing does away with tiny dials, digital dispalys, and manuals. The residential version has a bright red that simplifies the gizmo. Looks great. Photograph: 4-X-FORD; The Ford Explorer ahs been in overdrive since it hit dealer showrooms. Slaes of the off-road vehicle are double that of its predecessor, the Bronco II, and would be higher if Ford could build 'em faster. Its appeal, rugged 4-door looks and a comfortable interior. Ford's Explorer has kicked a lot of dirt on the Jeep Cherokee and left Toyota and Nissan behind. Photograph: TOT TOTE; The Fisher-Price Infant Car Seat not only protects babies but also can be easily carried from a parkng lot into the local supersmarket and locked securely into a shopping cart. The award-winning product also works as a baby seat at home. Photograph: HOT-TO-TROT; Notebook computers are a hit despite the recession. At six pounds and under, the tablet-size machines are easier to tote than thier heavier brothers, the Laptops. Screen technology and miniaturization are the name of this game. Cones are bringing the prices down. Photograph: VIDIOT-PROOF; TV remotes drive you crazy with thier myriad functions and buttions. Not Mitsubishi Electric's PRM1. It reduces every thing to three buttons: Power, Channel, Volume. Photograph: PRIME PUMP; It's called the Turbomolecular High Vacuum Pubm TMP 340-M, and it's an award-winning industrial product. The pump, built for Pennsylvania-based Leybold Vacuum Products, generates a precisely calibrated vacuum that's criticl in makng semiconductors. It even simulates outer space. Photograph: SOFT SELLER; Finally! Microsoft's new Windows 3.0 gives an IBM-compatible PC the colorful look and intuitive feel of a Mac. With great graphics and heafty power, Windows 3.0 is among the best-selling software ever. At 4.5 million copies. Photograph: LAB WORKER; It's a modular, economical, high-volume blood analyzer that permits technicians to select their own tests. The Nova Nucleus by Gregory Fossella Design for Nova Biomedical. Photograph: BLOOD TANK; THE AUTOTRANSFUSER COLLECTS AND RETURNS A PAITENT'S OWN BLOOD DURING SURGERY. DESIGNED BY HUMAN FACTORS FOR BIOSURGE. Photograph: VOTE-GETTER?; A PORTABLE, EASYTOUSE VOTING MACHINE THAT LOOKS LIKE FUN. IF ONLY IT WOULD GET MILLIONS OF AMERICANS BACK TO THE POLLS. BLOWMOLDED PLASTICS CUT DOWN ON TOOLING AND WEIGHT FOR BIG SAVINGS. WHEELCHAIRACCESABLE. BY BLECK DESIGN GROUP FOR SEQUOIA PACIFIC SYSTEMS. Photograph: THICK SKINNED; AT $250, ITS PRICELY, BUT THE HARDSIDED PROTECH II BY INNO DESIGN IN SUNNYVALE, CALIF., PROTECTS CLUBS FROM TRAVEL TRAUMA. FO RTHE COURSE, IT CONVERTS INTO A REGULAR BAG. Photograph: HUMAN CAPITAL; DEDICATION TO PROMOTING WOMEN AND MINORITIES TO MANAGERIAL RANK IS THE HALLMARK OF JAMES HOUGHTON'S REIGN AS CHAMIRMAN OF CORNING. BY ADVOCATING CULTURL DIVERSITY, OPERATING DAY CARE CENTERS, AND PROVIDNIG COACHES AND MENTORS FOR EMPLOYEES, HOUGHTON IS FIGHTING TO ENSURE THAT CORNING'S BASE OF HUMAN CAPITAL IS BUILT ON THE WIDEST POSSIBLE FOUNDATION. Photograph: GLASS ACT; DAVID D. GLASS, CEO OF WAL-MART SOTRES, LIVES IN THE SHADOW OF LEGENDRY FOUNDER SAM WALTON. BUT GLASS IS GUIDING WAL-MART'S EXPANSION, AIMING FOR MORE DISCOUNT SOTRES, NEW WHOLESALE CLUBS--AND DOUBLE-DIGIT EARNINGS GROWTH. WITH COMPETITORS CHOKIG ON DEBT, GLASSIS TAKING THE LEAD FOR THE '90S. Photograph: STEEL NERVE; KENNETH IVERSON, CEO OF NUCOR, IS BEATING THE BIG STEELMAKERS. BY INVESTING IN NEW TECHNOLOGY, THIS NICHE PLAYER IS BATTLING GIANTS IN FLAT-ROLLED STEEL FROM OIL PIPELINES TO AUTO PARTS. Photograph: SMART MONEY; FIRST WACHOVIA CHAIRMAN JOHN MEDLIN, 57%& IS THE GURU OF PRUDENT LENDING. CRITICIZED IN THE '80S FOR STODGINESS, MEDLIN'S CONSERVATIVE LENDING PRACTICES ARE THE GOLD STANDARD FOR THE '90S. IS A JUICY BANKING ACQUISITION IN THE OFFING? Photograph: UP AND AWAY; STEPHEN WOLF IS PILOTING UNITED AIRLINES TO NEW HEIGHTS. HE PLACED THE BIGGEST AIRLINE ORDER, $22 BILLION, FOR BOEING WIDE-BODY JETS, PICKD UP PAN AM'S COVETED LONDON ROUTES FOR JUST $400 MILLION, AND THEN OUTDULED ARCHRIVAL AMERICAN FOR RICH CHICAGO-TO-TOKYO ROUTES. UNITED EVEN REGAINED ITS NO. 1 SLOT. Photograph: SWELL IDEA THEY DID THE IMPOSSIBLE. WITH BIOTECH VENTURES STARVED FOR CAPITAL, STARTUP PROS ROBERT NOWINSKI, CHRISTOPHER HENNEY, AND GEORGE RATHMANN RAISED $33 MILLION TO LAUNCH ICOS. THE SEATTLE PHARMACEUTICAL MAKERS IS TARGETING A RED-HOT MEDICAL MARKET: DESEASES CHARACTERIZED BY INFLAMMATION, INCLUDING RHEUMATIOD ARTHRITIS, MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS, AND ASTHMA. Photograph: VIDEO WISE; THANKS TO SHANGHAI-BORN HENRY YUEN AND DANIEL KWOH, THERE'S FINALLY A SIMPLE WAY TO TAPE THE SIMPSONS WHILE YOU'RE OUT TO DINNER. JUST PUNCH IN THE SHORT CODE YOU SEE PRINTED IN MANY TV LISTING, AND THEIR NEW $60 VCR PLUS FROM GEMSTAR DEVELOMENT WILL DO THE REST. Photograph: GRAY MATTER; AS A STUDENT AT MIT, DANNY HILLIS HAD A DREAM: PUTTING TOGETHER SUPER-COMPUTERS SO THEY COULD PROCESS IN PARALLEL. HIS DESIGN IS NOW THE BLUEPRINT FOR THE INDUSTRY. REVENUES FOR THINKING MACHINES CORP., CAMBRIDGE, SHOULD REACH $60 MILLION THIS YEAR. Photograph: CLASS ACT; WITH ITS ''MY FRIEND TAUGHT ME'' PROGRM, CIGNA IS REACHING OUT TO YOUNG FOLKS. EVERY WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, DURING WORK HOURS, 175 INNER-CITY KIDS FORM HARTFORD ARE BUSSED TO CIGNA'S OFFICES FOR ONE-ON-ONE HELP WITH MATH AND READING. THEIR TUTORS: EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS. Photograph: TEEN AID; DON'T DROP OUT. BURGER KING IS HELPING TEENS STAY IN SCHOOL. ITS 10 AFTERSCHOOL ''ACADEMIES'' PROVIDE TUTORING AND INVOLVE KIDS IN COMMUNITY SERVICE. Photograph: GOOD WORKS; BY MONITORING FREE ELECTRONICS IN HAITI, BUILDNIG HOUSING FOR AMERICA'S WORKING POOR, AND BATTLING DISEASE IN AFRICA, JIMMY CARTER IS DOING GOOD, NOT CASHING IN. DUPONT, MERCK, AND AMERICAN CYANAMID ARE BACKING THE EX-PRESIDENT IN HIS MEIDCAL MESSIONS. Photograph: SLICK SHPERES; HARKING BACK TO ALCHEMY, SCIENTISTS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA AND THE MAX PLANCK INSTITUTE FOR NUCLEAR PHYSICS IN GERMANY SYNTHESIZED A NEW CLASS OF MODECULES CALLED ''BUCKYBALLS''. THEY CONSISTS OF 60 CARBON ATOMS ARRANGED IN A SPHERICAL FORM RESEMBLING BUCKMINISTER FULLER'S GEODESIC DOMES. CHEMISTS ARE ALREDY HOT N THE TRAIL OF APPLICATIONS, INCLUDING A SUPER-SLIPPERY LUBERICANT AND A NEW KIND OF RECHARGEABLE BATTERY. Photograph: RAY OF HOPE; BELL LABS RESERCHER ALAN HUANG HAS A VISION OF THE FUTURE: COMPUTER THAT USE LASER LIGHT TO ACHIEVE PROCESSING SPEED 1,000 TO 10,000 TIMES FASTER THAN TODAY'S SPEEDIEST ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS. HIS PROTOTYPE OPTICAL PROCCESSOR, ABOUT 4 FEET SQUARE, IS BEING SHRUNK TO 3 INCHES SQUARE. Photograph: REAL GEMS; THESE ULTRAPURE DIAMONDS WERE CRETED IN GENERAL ELECTRIC'S RESERCH LABS. SUBERB HEAT CONDUCTORS, THEY MAY HELP KEEP ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS COOL. MEANWHILE, OTHER SCIENTISTS IN THE U.S. AND ABROAD USED THIN FILMS OF SYNTHETIC DIAMOND TO MAKE EVERYTHING FROM TRANSISTORS TO AMAZINGLY CLEAR WINDOWS. Photograph: EYEING VENUS; DESPITE ITS MANY TROUBLES, NASA MANAGED AN INTRIGUING MISSION TO THE EARTH'S CLOUD-SHROUDED TWIN, BENUS, LAUNCHED FROM THE SHUTTLE, THE MAGELLAN PROBE REACHED VENUS IN AUGUST AND SENT BACK IMAGES OF REMARKABLY PRISTINE CRATERS, REVEALING THAT VENUS' SURFACE IS FAR YOUNGER THAN SCIENTISTS HAD THOUGHT. Photograph: MIRACLE GENES; THE AGE OF GENE THERAPY IS DAWNING, IN A LANDMARK EXPERIMENT, DOCTORS AT THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH HAVE INSERTED THE FIRST THERAPEUTIC GENE INTO HUMAN BEING--A YOUNG GIRL WITH AN ENZYME DEFICIENCY THAT LEFT HER WITHOUT A FUNCTIONING IMMUNE SYSTEM. A SIMILAR EXPERIMENT HAS BEGUN WIH CANCER PATEINTS. IN THE LAB, SCIENTISTS ARE NOW ABLE TO CORRECT GENETIC DEFECTS BY INSERTING NEW GENES INTO INDIVIDUAL CELLS. Photograph: CHIP POWER; PACKING THE PUNCH OF AN IBM 3090 MAINFRAME, INTEL'S 486 MICROPROCESSOR HAS STARTED A NEW AGE IN PERSONAL COMPUTING: MULTIPROCESSING, PCs BUILT WITH THIS 12 MILLION-TRANSISTOR CHIP CAN BE LINKED IN NETWORKS THAT BRING UNPRECEDENTED POWER TO THE DESKTOP. Photograph: SOFT TOUCH; CALL IT THE KINDER, GENTLER NIKE. IN ITS TV ADS, MICHEAL JORDON STILL SLAMS, AND BO JACKSON STILL JAMS. BUT THIS YEAR, A PRINT AD WITH ELEGIAC COPY AND THE IMAGE OF A LONE RUNNER GIVES A SOFTER NUANCE TO NIKE'S ''JUST DO IT'' RALLYING CRY. AGENCY: WIEDEN & DENNEDY. Photograph: FUNNYMAN; MINNESOTA DARK HORE PAUL WELLSTONE USED A SERIES OF WITTY TV SPOTS T OUNSEAT SENATE INCUMBENT RUDY BOSCHWITZ. IN THIS COMMERCIAL, MINNEAPOLIS ADMAN BILL HILLSMAN OFFERS A DEFT TAKEOFF OF ''ROGER AND ME'', Photograph: A TOWERING AD; AN AERIAL SHOT OF HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE IN THE UTAH DESERT CREATING A GIANT HUMAN FACE. THEME: GLOBAL HARMONY. THE AD WON MANY 1990 ACCOLADES. BY SAATCHI & SAATCHI FOR BRITHISH AIRWAYS. Photograph: HIGH POINTS; DESIGNED BY LOCAL FIRM ZIMMER, GUNSUL, FRASCA, THE TWIN TOWERS OF THE NEW PORTLAND (ORE.) CONVENTION CENTER ARE ALREADY A LANDMARK. Photograph: LIFTING OFF; SATURN'S SPRING HILL (TENN) PLANT MAY BECOME AMERICA'S MOST EFFICIENT. WORKERS STAND ON PLATFORMS THAT MOVE ALONG WITH THE CAR BEING ASSEMBLED. PARTS ARE UNLOADED RIGHT WHERE THEY'RE NEEDED. FLOORS ARE WOOD, FOR WORKERS' COMFORT: THE PLANT IS AIR-CONDITIONED. NOW, WHERE ARE THE CARS? Photograph: URBAN OASIS; THIS OPEN AND COLORFUL SHOPPING MALL DESIGNED BY SOMERVILLE (MASS) ARCHITECT ARROWSTREET HAS DEFIED THE GREAT NEW ENGLAND RECESSION. THE CAMBRIDGE SIDE GALLERIA WAS DELIBERATELY DESIGNED FOR URBAN SPACE. IT OPENS ONTO NEARBY PARKS AND STREETS IN CAMBRIDGE. 


Document bw00000020011110dn1e0002a


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 22 *******************    


ANYONE FOR BUCKYBALLS? (NEW FORM OF CARBON CALLED BUCKMINSTERFULLERENES) 

By Sally Solo 
282 words 
11 February 1991
Fortune 
16 
English
Copyright Time Inc. 1991 

The cream of U.S. corporate research labs, including those at AT&T, Exxon, and IBM, are searching for commercial applications for a new form of carbon named Buckminsterfullerenes -- Buckyballs, for short. Why such a name? Each soot-derived cluster of atoms resembles the late architect's geodesic dome (see photo). 

The carbon could be used for such new products as specialty automotive lubricants and stronger and lighter materials to make tennis rackets, airplane wings, and other things. 

Rice University chemical physicist Richard Smalley identifies what could be the big payoff: "We may have stumbled across a new approach to building rechargeable batteries." Smalley's theoretical recipe: to use the carbon cluster as a protective cage for lithium and fluorine atoms, which create energy when put together but lose it when exposed to air. He says this could produce a battery strong enough to power electric cars. Smalley was among the first to discover Buckyballs back in 1985. The critical breakthrough came last fall: Scientists at the University of Arizona and the Max Planck Institute for Nuclear Physics in Heidelberg, Germany, found out how to produce the molecules in quantities big enough to see with the naked eye. 

Traditional batteries are the weak link in electric cars because they are heavy and must be recharged frequently. GM has produced a noncommercial electric vehicle and is calling on Chrysler and Ford Motor to help form a coalition to develop better battery technology. How about Buckyballs? Said a GM spokesman: "We are aware of the discovery." - S.S. 

CAPTION: Smalley and model of a Buckyball, enlarged 100 million times ILLUSTRATION: photograph 


Document fortu00020020328dn2b001r3


More Like This

 Article 23 *******************    


WHAT AMERICA MAKES BEST: IT SURE IS TRUE WHAT THEY SAY ABOUT BETTER MOUSETRAPS. COMPANIES THAT PRODUCE SUPERIOR GOODS WILL FIND THE WORLD AT THEIR DOORSTEP - AND RIVALS IN THEIR DUST. 

By Louis S. Richman 
3,473 words 
22 March 1991
Fortune 
78 
English
Copyright Time Inc. 1991 

A DECADE of ferocious global economic competition has introduced American companies to a new primer of excellence. Cozy up to your customers, shape up your suppliers, lengthen your financial time horizons, shorten your development cycles, design to manufacture, tolerate no defects, speed up, slim down, delegate, empower, and, oh yes, have a vision. 

American companies have made impressive progress taking these challenges to heart in the 1980s. But the companies that will thrive in the 1990s will be the masters of the one corporate strategy that is a sure-fire winner: Offer the best products year in and year out. Says Andrew Grove, CEO of Intel Corp., whose advanced microprocessors have long been the computer industry standard: "When your products are and remain the best, you define, on your terms, the game your competitors have to play and cannot win." 

Today, MADE IN AMERICA adorns a dazzling variety of goods and services that merit the superlative "the world's best" (see table, page 86). Our list, which we have chosen to limit to 100 nonmilitary products, is by no means exhaustive. To be considered, an item had to be made by a company headquartered in the U.S., with at least half its added value coming from design or manufacture within American borders. In compiling the list, FORTUNE consulted scores of industry associations, trade publications, security analysts, management consultants, quality experts, and customers who buy the products. 

To make the final cut, the object had to incorporate the best technology, design, and reliability, and offer the greatest value for its price. In winnowing the list, we gave priority to those products that have blazed new technological frontiers or have demonstrated sustained market leadership. 

The companies that produce this bounty of American excellence are a varied lot. All, however, share essential traits: They approach their business with the attitude that their survival depends on what they make and ship tomorrow; and from the top of the organization to the bottom, they live and breathe determination to excel. Says Thomas J. Peters, the author of the best-selling In Search of Excellence: "Passion is the glue that holds the leaders together." 

Through its best products, the U.S. defines itself to the world. Top wares reflect a deep-rooted talent for innovating, standardizing, democratizing, and fantasizing -- not to mention franchising. The challenge of harvesting continentwide waves of grain gave rise to such peerless agricultural equipment as Deere and Case tractors and combines. Reliance on private enterprise to tie together the centers of a huge commercial market gave birth to heroic aerospace and telecommunications industries. Twin propensities to produce a lot of waste and to worry about its environmental impact created superior pollution abatement businesses. 

The products of America's imagination have also solidly established themselves as icons of a global popular culture. The Cold War has given way to Coke and Pepsi's cola war, and nearly all the world's children want citizenship in Disneyland. Fashion-conscious Japanese teens insist that their Levi's jeans be the very cut worn by the 1950s screen rebel James Dean. 

But many essential everyday products are not made in the U.S.A. -- or not made here anymore. Just three American cars, each occupying a specialized market niche, qualified as leaders in the world's most mobile society. And the gadget-crazy populace buys imported camcorders and VCRs. 

FEW AREAS of product excellence better reflect today's distinctively American commercial advantages and social priorities than the medical equipment and pharmaceuticals industries. Leveraging the stunning advances pouring out of university research laboratories and tapping the deep pools of venture capital that are the envy of would-be entrepreneurs elsewhere in the world, brilliant young companies have pioneered diagnostic instruments, surgical tools, and new drugs. Together with such pharmaceutical giants as Merck, Eli Lilly, and Bristol-Myers Squibb, these fledglings account for nearly 13% of the 100 best products on our list. 

No segment of the health care industry is a better showcase for technological prowess and rough-and-tumble competitiveness than the new field of biotechnology. While most of the 700 or so biotech boutiques founded in the 1980s are still searching for their first breakthrough drug, Amgen, an 11-year-old California firm, has had two approved by the Food and Drug Administration within the past two years -- Epogen and Neupogen. Industry analysts estimate that Epogen, which treats anemia in kidney dialysis patients, and Neupogen, a drug that builds up cancer patients' immune systems against the ravaging side effects of chemotherapy, will each generate over $1 billion a year in revenues by the end of 1992. 

Because cloning new therapeutic compounds and then running the gantlet of regulatory approval for them is so difficult and costly, most biotech firms license many promising products to larger drug companies and pour all their resources into perfecting their science. But from the start, Amgen was determined to become a fully integrated pharmaceutical company in its own right. It has accomplished this by building what CEO Gordon Binder calls a "just-in-time organization." Only when a critical stage of a new drug's development was met did the company invest heavily to build the manufacturing and marketing infrastructure for it that would enable Amgen to keep control of its products. 

From a public policy point of view, the prominence of health care products is a mixed blessing. Their success feeds off a frightfully expensive -- and often wasteful and inequitable -- delivery system that consumes 12% of GNP, nearly double what America's major trading partners spend. Happily, many of the most successful recent advances lower the cost of diagnosis and deliver a better product in the process. Acuson of Mountain View, California, a manufacturer of computerized diagnostic equipment, is one young company that embodies this promising trend. Founded by CEO Samuel H. Maslak, an MIT-trained electrical engineer, the company has revolutionized the field of sonography, a technology that uses safe, targeted soundwaves to penetrate body tissues and allows technicians to detect abnormalities on a monitor. 

SONOGRAPHY had been around as a diagnostic tool since the late 1960s, but image resolution was so poor that most doctors preferred to use magnetic resonance scanners, computer-driven devices costing over $1 million apiece. Maslak's technical innovation was to harness the power of a specially built mainframe computer to sound-wave imaging, enabling the machines to reveal detailed moving images of organs. He also pioneered a different way to sell his product. Because Acuson was new to the market and its basic system sold for $125,000, at least a 50% premium over competitors' using the older technology, the company has strived to make sure that any future engineering improvements would not render the original equipment obsolete. 

Acuson has consistently made good on this pledge, which rivals have been forced to match. The company has since added color imaging and more precise tissue-measurement features, and has broadened applications that allow sound waves to peer into more organs. With the launch of its second generation of ultrasound machines last July, Acuson now has annual sales of $282 million and pretax profits that are a healthy 27% of revenues. 

Even a company with first-rate products and outstanding technology can flounder if its top management is preoccupied with the wrong ones. That was a lesson Honeywell learned. For more than a century the company made sensors and controls for use in industrial processes and building heating and cooling as well as aircraft-navigation and flight-management systems. Yet for decades, these were put on automatic pilot while top management unsuccessfully pursued the glamour of the mainframe computer business and fat contracts for defense electronics. Says CEO James Renier: "Honeywell had two cultures. The real hearts and guts of the company have always been in sensors and controls, but top management was stuck in mainframes and defense." 

Not anymore. In 1985 Honeywell unloaded its mainframe business to its French partner, Machines Bull; spun off most of its defense electronics units; and put all its efforts back into sensors and controls. It acquired the Sperry aerospace business of newly formed Unisys to complement its own commercial aerospace business. Now all three of the company's remaining divisions are widening their market leadership, while employee morale -- and Honeywell stock -- is flying high. Says Renier: "We learned from our past failures that winners make life miserable for those who trail." 

Honeywell learned from trial and error to stick with what it made best, whereas WD-40 has never made anything but the eponymous water-displacing (hence, the WD) formula. (The company will not disclose what the formula is.) Packaged in a nearly ubiquitous blue-and-yellow spray can, it lubricates, fights rust, dissolves, cleans, and boasts fanatic customer loyalty because users know it will meet or exceed their expectations. 

Originally formulated in 1953 to help engineers in the early rocket industry fight corrosive pitting on the skin of the Atlas missile, WD-40 soon found an astounding variety of other applications. Car mechanics loved the way it loosened sticky valves and removed moisture from balky carburetors. Handymen discovered that it unfroze locks and screws. Housekeepers found it cleaned heel marks from linoleum and children's crayon doodles from walls and appliances. Fishermen spray the slightly sweet smelling mist on their lures and claim it helps land walleyes and salmon. And each month, CEO John Barry says, the company receives three or four letters from arthritis sufferers who swear that a spritz of WD-40 on elbows, fingers, or knees limbers their joints. (The company makes no medicinal claims and warns that the product could irritate sensitive skin.) 

The genius of WD-40 Co. was to let customers decide how best to use it. A can of the stuff can be found in nearly three-quarters of all American homes -- far more than any other branded package good. Total sales, which have grown at better than a 10% annual compound rate since the late Sixties, last year went over $90 million, and the mystique is spreading abroad. The lubricant is a best-seller in Britain and Yugoslavia and is rapidly winning devotees elsewhere in Europe and Asia. 

While the principle of giving consumers exactly what they want -- and more -- remains the same for all would-be leaders, few markets stand still long enough to embrace products that don't change. None moves faster than the market for advanced electronics. With nine products on our roster of the best, Hewlett-Packard is a champion at matching slippery, fast technological change with rapidly evolving customer needs. 

HP is a font of innovation with a portfolio of nearly 12,000 items from highly specialized medical and scientific test equipment to popular pocket calculators. Behind its prodigious product development is the hunt for what executive vice president Richard C. Alberding calls a "technological inflection point" -- the crossroads where HP's varied technical capabilities intersect with unmet customer needs. Says Alberding: "We try to look ahead for several generations of a product's potential before we commit our resources to see if a family of products, each serving a traditional or emerging market, can be developed." 

Occasionally HP's technology has come up with a solution to a problem that didn't exist, including the eminently forgettable HP beet-picking machine and a foul-line detector for bowling alleys. But when the system is clicking, it churns out dazzling innovations that the company can upgrade and harvest years of profits from. As a project manager in the 1970s, for example, Marvin L. Patterson studied engineering drafting standards in an effort to devise a machine that would print faster, more accurate scaled schematic drawings from a computer. Meanwhile, HP's labs had perfected a mechanism that would accurately feed ordinary paper through a plotter. 

WITH a development team comprising engineers, marketers, and production specialists, Patterson refined his concept and developed a breakthrough digital plotter, called the HP7580, introduced in 1981. Within two years, the company had snared 60% of the market. As HP found less costly ways to manufacture its new product, it added features that led to nearly a dozen additional models targeted to still more users, such as financial analysts and molecular engineers. Today sales of digital plotters total an estimated $400 million a year. Says Patterson, now HP's director of corporate engineering: "Every successful product has to reflect a truly imaginative understanding of customers' needs. If they literally act like kids with a new toy, you have done the job right." 

At the other end of the technology spectrum are A.T. Cross's prestige pens and pencils. These sturdy products -- and the 145-year-old company that makes them -- have weathered the invention and obsolescence of the typewriter and the arrival of the computer on executives' desks. Though constantly threatened with extinction, Cross writing instruments have remained firmly clipped to American breast pockets, and they have become one of the most popular American-made gifts in Japan. 

The company, which is headquartered near Providence, has been managed by two generations of Crosses and, since 1916, by three generations of the Boss family. Company pride runs deep at A.T. Cross & Co. It had better. The manufacture of seemingly pedestrian mechanical pens and pencils is a fiendishly complicated process that involves 150 assembly steps, mostly done by hand. Every one of the company's 1,225 hourly workers is a quality-control expert responsible for checking the tolerances of engraved grooves to within a ten-thousandth of an inch and detecting nearly microscopic scratches or the slightest clotting of ink on a pen ball. Though their work is tedious, they keep standards so high that less than 2% of the products shipped are ever returned for repair during their lifetime guarantee. 

How does Cross do it? Certainly not with cash incentives. The company has offered a modest profit-sharing program since 1960, and wages are no higher than those prevailing in the Providence area. Solid job security helps win employee loyalty. The company has never had a layoff. When new, more efficient production technology is introduced, workers are retrained and generally promoted. But CEO Brad Boss offers the most compelling reason: "Pride in making a top-quality product." 

Pride in making the best -- it's a quality that not only creates great companies. It also builds richer, more competitive nations. 

CAPTION: America's best ranges from microchips, like Intel's powerful 486 microprocessor (above), to airships guided by this Honeywell avionics equipment being tested in a cockpit simulator. Since it got out of computers, Honeywell has been reemphasizing its controls business. 

CAPTION: See above. 

CAPTION: It lubricates! It coats! It cleans! It wins fanatic worldwide customer loyalty. 

CAPTION: Patterson, now head of engineering, led HP's team that developed the first model of this successful digital plotter family. 

CAPTION: A CAR FOR WHEREVER YOU ARE From Fort Lauderdale, Florida (above), to France to Fiji, Avis and its archrival Hertz circle the globe with rented wheels. The two giants of the rent-a-car business have a combined worldwide fleet of 800,000. 

CAPTION: BUT CAN THE DONALD AFFORD ONE? Summer is a powerboat zooming across the water. Brunswick Corp.'s 63-foot Super Sun Sport (below) is top of the line, with ceramic tile floors, gold faucets in both heads, and a $1.2 million pricetag. 

CAPTION: A CLUTCH OF PURSES Barbara Bush carried a Judith Leiber handbag (right) to her husband's inaugural and later gave one to Raisa Gorbachev. Prices range from $750 to $6,000. 

CAPTION: NEW DRUG BUT NO DRUG ON THE MARKET A product in the biotechnology pharmacopeia, Amgen's Epogen (right) treats anemia in kidney dialysis patients. It could generate $1 billion in sales in 1992. 

CAPTION: EASY WEARER IN THE WILDERNESS Osprey's Xenith backpack (worn at right by company president Michael Pfotenhauer) is anatomically designed to hug the body and not throw the hiker off balance. 

CAPTION: LOOKS SHARP, FEELS SHARP, IS SHARP The best-selling razor in the U.S. and Western Europe, Gillette's Sensor (left), has 20 patents. Since Sensor was introduced in 1990, it has had sales of over $300 million. 

CAPTION: THE NE PLUS OF ULTRASOUND By transforming tissue-penetrating sound waves into detailed, computer-generated color images (above) that show movement, Acuson Corp. enables radiologists to peer into a patient's internal organs. 

CAPTION: HIP BONE CONNECTED TO THE THIGH BONE This titanium hip joint (above), made by Osteonics, uses hydroxylapatite coatings to help the artificial material bond with natural bone. Result: implants that endure for up to 30 years. 

CAPTION: BEATING THE LOS ANGELES TRAFFIC JAMS Priced a bit over $100,000 -- about the cost of a Ferrari sports car -- this two-seater Robinson R22 chopper (below) can herd sheep -- or executives from the office to the first tee. 

CAPTION: A BRIEF NOTE ON QUALITY BRIEFS Around the world, Jockey means men's underwear the way Kleenex means tissues. The briefs (above) are made of fine Acala cotton, with natural rubber in the waistband. 

CAPTION: A BREAST POCKET FULL OF GOLD The result of pride and precision craftsmanship: Less than 2% of the Cross pens (below) and pencils shipped are ever returned by their owners for repair during the unconditional lifetime guarantee. 

CAPTION: MASTER OF THE {MASSIVELY PARALLEL} UNIVERSE By linking thousands of microprocessors to interact and operate parallel with each other rather than serially as most computers do, W. Daniel Hillis, co-founder of Thinking Machines (above with the company's CM-2), is making the computer function more like the human mind. 

CAPTION: BOMB IN BAGHDAD -- HIT ELSEWHERE TV correspondent Peter Arnett brought news of the Gulf war from the enemy capital to offices and living rooms around the world, making Ted Turner's CNN network the eyes of the global village. CAPTION: IMPROVING THE ODDS FOR DRILLERS Hot, new gear in the oil patch, this Dyna-drill motor (left) by Smith International changes direction as it bores in to drill horizontally into narrow pockets of crude. RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS American Assembly Columbia University 412 Altschul Hall New York, New York 10027 212-280-3456 American Productivity & Quality Center 123 North Post Oak Lane Houston, Texas 77024 713-681-4020 American Society for Training & Development 1640 King Street Alexandria, Virginia 22314 703-683-8100 Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy University of California at Berkeley 2234 Piedmont Avenue Berkeley, California 94720 415-642-3067 Center for Effective Organizations University of Southern California 3500 South Figueroa Street Los Angeles, California 90089 213-743-8765 Computer Systems Policy Project 1735 New York Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20006 202-628-1700 Council on Competitiveness 900 17th Street NW Washington, D.C. 20006 202-785-3990 Defense Science Board The Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301 703-695-4157 Jobs of the Future 48 Grove Street Somerville, Massachusetts 02144 617-628-6661 MIT Commission on Industrial Productivity Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 617-253-5714 National Advisory Committee on Semiconductors 1555 Wilson Boulevard Arlington, Virginia 22209 703-522-1683 National Center on Education and the Economy's Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce 1341 G Street NW Washington, D.C. 20005 202-783-3668 Work in America Institute 700 White Plains Road Scarsdale, New York 10583 914-472-9600 TRADE ASSOCIATIONS National Association of Manufacturers 1331 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20004 202-637-3000 National Coalition for Advanced Manufacturing 1331 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20004 202-347-0900 Semiconductor Industry Association 4300 Stevens Creek Boulevard San Jose, California 95129 408-246-2711 GOVERNMENT AGENCIES Advanced Technology Program U.S. Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards & Technology Technology Building Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899 301-975-3972 Clearinghouse for State & Local Government Initiatives on Productivity, Technology & Innovation U.S. Department of Commerce 14th & Constitution Avenues NW Washington, D.C. 20230 202-377-8100 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency 1400 Wilson Boulevard Arlington, Virginia 22209 703-545-6705 International Trade Administration U.S. Department of Commerce 14th & Constitution Avenues NW Washington, D.C. 20230 202-372-1461 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award Office U.S. Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards & Technology Administration Building Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899 301-975-3972 National Workplace Literacy Program U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue SW Washington, D.C. 20202 202-732-2251 Technology Administration U.S. Department of Commerce 14th & Constitution Avenues NW Washington, D.C. 20230 202-377-1397 ILLUSTRATION: photograph - table CAPTION: 100 of America's best. (table) 


Document fortu00020020328dn3m001ue


More Like This

 Article 24 *******************    



Technology & Medicine 

Scientific Teams Find Structures In Thin Films 

By Jerry E. Bishop 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
293 words 
28 March 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B5 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Two teams of scientists said they each found strange, microscopic "screw-like" structures in new superconducting thin films. 

The microscopic crystals, which faintly resemble Art Deco spiral staircases, occur at a density of about five billion in every square inch of the superconducting films. They may explain the unexpected ability of the new films to carry large amounts of electric current, both teams of scientists said. The films are being developed for exotic new electronic and computer components. 

The mysterious screw-like structures, seen only under the powerful scanning tunneling microscope, were described in separate reports by scientists at International Business Machines Corp.'s laboratory in Zurich, Switzerland, and by scientists at the U.S. government's Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico. 

IBM also said the discovery was important because it could aid in the manufacture of superconducting thin films. 

The structures were found in thin films made of yttrium-barium-copper oxide, a material that created world-wide excitement in 1986 when it was found to carry electric current without any resistance when cooled with liquid nitrogen. Such superconductivity previously had been seen only in materials cooled to close to absolute zero by liquid helium. 

In theory, the amount of current that can flow through the new superconductors should be limited by the formation and movement of magnetic fluctuations. But superconducting thin films made by the so-called sputtering method can carry currents far in excess of the theoretical limits. The reason, the scientists suggested, may be that the new-found screw-shaped "dislocations" pin down the magnetic fluctuations so that they can't interfere with the current flow. 

Document j000000020011109dn3s007je


More Like This

 Article 25 *******************    



Science: Buckyballs Give Researchers Big Bounce 

By David Stipp 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
993 words 
2 April 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

For those who missed the raft of scientific papers published recently on odd spherical molecules called buckyballs, now comes buckyball, the movie. 

It's a video simulation made with the help of a supercomputer, featuring an innocently rolling buckyball that suddenly gets squashed between two walls of hard stuff. There is a happy ending, though. After the pressure is eased, the flattened ball pops back into shape, notes Donald Brenner, a researcher at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C., who helped produce the simulation. 

Not "Rocky IV" perhaps, but to scientists it is gripping, action-packed entertainment. The buckyball is physical science's hottest new star -- it's hitting the gee-whiz button among physicists and chemists more often than anything has since the superconductor breakthrough five years ago. That's partly because the buckies are such oddballs, chemically speaking -- they are only the third pure form of carbon to be discovered, after graphite and diamonds. And their unique properties suggest a bounty of commercial uses, including new lubricants, drugs, fuels, batteries and high-strength materials. 

"I meet many scientists and have been absolutely stunned" by the number working on buckyballs, says Robert D. Johnson, an International Business Machines Corp. researcher studying the molecules. By last fall, "every visiting group {of scientists} was working on this or knew someone who was." 

Buckyballs resemble symmetrical spheres of chicken wire when depicted using chemist's ball-and-stick models. Their more formal name is buckminsterfullerenes, suggested by their resemblance to the geodesic domes of architect Buckminster Fuller. Buckyballs are thought to be formed -- at least fleetingly -- when carbon-containing substances, such as candles, are burned and make soot. But they weren't identified until 1985, when Richard Smalley, a Rice University physical chemist, and colleagues used a laser-zapping technique to spawn and isolate tiny amounts of them. With some ideas from Harold Kroto of England's University of Sussex, Mr. Smalley figured out their structure late one night by taping together paper polygons in his kitchen after loosening his imagination with beer. 

The buckyball bonanza really started last fall, however, when a team of German and U.S. scientists published an easy way to make the molecules in sizable quantities. Their technique requires little more equipment than an ordinary arc welder -- a major reason why so many scientists are jumping into the buckyball game. 

Commercial caution is in order: Buckyball applications remain highly speculative for the reason that all the data aren't in on their basic properties yet. Some possibilities suggested in the first flush of excitement already are looking a little dubious. University of Arizona chemist Donald Huffman, who co-discovered the easy way to make buckyballs, says he sent some to Edwards Air Force Base in California to try as rocket fuel. In early tests, "they couldn't get it to ignite," he says. 

But buckyballs do oxidize and break down when heated. That casts doubt on one early hope: applying the molecules like tiny ball bearings to lubricate hot engine parts. Moreover, they may be too small to lessen the rub between typical surfaces. "It might be like trying to lubricate the moon rubbing against the Earth by putting ping-pong balls on the mountains," says Rice's Mr. Smalley. 

Still, the tiny balls may be just the thing to lubricate gears in "micromotors," suggests John Weaver, a University of Minnesota physicist. Such microscopic motors might someday be used in gnat-sized robots designed to clean clogged arteries and perform other chores in small places. 

Unlike other forms of pure carbon, buckyballs dissolve in various solvents, making them easy to chemically manipulate, says IBM's Mr. Johnson. Thus, it may be fairly easy to customize them for certain uses, including lubrication, by chemically combining other atoms or molecules with them. Researchers at the University of California in Berkeley already have reported forming a buckyball variant resembling a purse with a handle. And polymers made from long chains of chemically altered buckyballs stuck together might provide extra strength in aircraft wings and other places, says Mr. Smalley. 

The best-known buckyball contains 60 carbon atoms; but larger ones, some with hundreds of atoms, also are thought to exist. The size variations may be handy for applications based on the idea of placing atoms or other molecules inside buckyballs. For instance, radioactive atoms for killing cancer cells might be sheathed in buckyballs before injection to help protect the atoms while they work against tumors. And batteries' charged particles -- their electrically active ingredients -- might last longer by "shrink-wrapping" them in buckyballs, scientists say. 

Recent studies suggest buckyballs themselves can be turned into highly charged particles by well-known methods that strip away one or more of their carbon atoms' electrons. That means the balls alone might spawn new kinds of batteries. Charged buckyballs also can be accelerated by electric fields -- if hurled into carbon or other surfaces, they might even exert enough pressure to form a thin layer of diamond, speculate some researchers; on the other hand, there is some evidence the buckyballs may just bounce off the surface. A kind of Bucky Rogers idea also has been proposed -- blasting charged buckyballs out the tail of a spacecraft to propel it at high speeds to distant planets. 

Farfetched suggestions for applying buckyballs seem natural as their exotic properties emerge. Among other things, the balls appear to be semiconductors -- like the silicon used in computer chips. And researchers recently found that the balls form exotic crystals resembling hovering rows of spinning tops. Excitement about such surprises is helping to dispel a cloud over physics and chemistry lingering from bitter controversy about "cold fusion," the potential energy breakthrough that hasn't panned out, says Mark Ross, a researcher at the Naval Research Laboratory. The new buckyball game, he adds, is making scientists "like little kids again." 

Document j000000020011109dn42008gc


More Like This

 Article 26 *******************    



Technology & Medicine 

Researchers Play Superconductively With `Buckyballs' --- New Properties Discovered In the Unusual Molecules, But No Practical Use Yet 

By David Stipp 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
492 words 
18 April 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B8 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Wonders are not ceasing with strange molecules called buckyballs -- researchers have discovered they can be made into superconductors. 

The finding links two of physical science's hottest areas. Buckyballs are soccer ball-shaped molecules made of carbon that were first identified in 1985. The molecules' formal name, buckminsterfullerene, was inspired by their striking resemblance to the geodesic domes of late architect Buckminster Fuller. Last fall, German and U.S. scientists published a recipe for making them easily, sparking an explosion of studies on their odd properties and practical possibilities. Researchers believe they someday may be used to make new lubricants, batteries and high-strength polymers, among other things. 

But the buckyball excitement so far is more a matter of curiosity than commerce. The discovery of buckyball superconductivity, by researchers at American Telephone & Telegraph Inc.'s Bell Laboratories, also appears to be more of scientific interest than a practical advance. 

Superconductors are materials that conduct electricity without resistance and repel magnetic fields when cooled to very low temperatures. Five years ago, scientists began finding new ones that require less cooling and that may lead to faster computers, cheaper electricity and other new technologies. 

The Bell Labs scientists found that when mixed with a certain amount of the element potassium, buckyballs become superconducting at 18 degrees Kelvin, or minus 427 degrees Fahrenheit. Superconductors containing carbon had been known earlier, but they are chemically distinct from buckyballs and work at lower temperatures. A report on the latest discovery appears in today's issue of the journal Nature. 

The new buckyball superconductor is highly unstable and breaks down in air. Its superconducting temperature is far lower than the relatively balmy minus 320 degrees Fahrenheit needed for so-called hightemperature superconductors that are now being developed. "Right now, buckyball superconductivity is most interesting as a mind game," said Richard Smalley, a Rice University researcher who played a central role in discovering buckyballs. 

But if scientists can figure out what causes superconductivity in the molecules, they might be able to achieve the phenomenon in related compounds with more commercial potential, said Arthur Hebard, a Bell Labs researcher involved in the latest discovery. He added that by bringing two hot topics together, the finding might also yield "symbiotic" insights, such as better understanding of how other recently discovered superconductors work. 

Mr. Smalley said that his team and other scientists already are working overtime trying to make various "dopeyballs," buckyballs that have been doped, or combined, with noncarbon atoms in hopes of further probing what the molecules can do. One hope, he added, is to make more stable dopeyball superconductors by placing potassium or other atoms inside the hollow sphere formed by balls. In the Bell Labs superconductor, the potassium atoms exist outside the balls, interspersed in buckyball crystals. 

Document j000000020011109dn4i008un


More Like This

 Article 27 *******************    



Developments to Watch THE 'BUCKYBALL' THROWS A NEW CURVE AT SCIENTISTS 

EDITED BY WILLIAM D. MARBACH 
181 words 
29 April 1991
Business Week 
Pg. 86 
Vol. Number 3211 
English
Copyright 1991 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Buckyballs are on a roll. Last year, scientists learned how to make this class of unusual molecules that each contain 60 carbon atoms, arranged in a form resembling Buckminster Fuller's geodesic domes. Chemists sought to develop uses for these, including superslippery lubricants. Then in early April, scientists at AT&T Bell Labs announced that thin films made from these exotic materials could conduct electricity. 

Now, the Bell Lab researchers have made an even more startling finding. When just the right amount of potassium is added to these thin films, the buckyballs become superconductors at temperatures as high as 18 degrees above absolute zero. That's not nearly as warm as the new wave of high-temperature superconductors but is far higher than scientists had expected, based on the properties of another form of carbon, graphite. Scientists don't foresee any immediate practical applications, but the discovery poses an intriguing challenge to theoretical physicists, who now want to discover precisely how the superconductivity occurs. 

Document bw00000020011110dn4t000xh


More Like This

 Article 28 *******************    



Technology & Medicine 

Higher-Temperature Superconducting By Buckyballs Is Indicated in Tests 

By David Stipp 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
474 words 
24 May 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE C11 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

The buckyball just keeps rolling along. 

A month ago researchers reported that buckyballs, spherical molecules of pure carbon, can be made into superconductors when mixed with potassium. Now scientists have discovered hints of superconductivity in a similar buckyball mix at a significantly higher temperature, 30 Kelvins, or minus 405 degrees Fahrenheit -- about the operating temperature of the first revolutionary "high temperature" superconductors discovered five years ago. 

That temperature, however, is still considerably below the temperature of liquid nitrogen, minus 320 degrees Fahrenheit, at which the most promising new superconductors operate. Moreover, scientists don't yet know whether buckyball superconductors can carry much electrical current or be easily fabricated into useful forms, and until such things are known, the materials' commercial promise can't be assessed, scientists said. 

Still, the latest finding forges another surprising link between two hot subjects, potentially speeding conceptual advances in both areas. Buckyballs, formally called buckminsterfullerene because of their resemblance to the geodesic domes of architect Buckminster Fuller, recently have sparked excitement as the potential basis for new lubricants, high-strength polymers, batteries and other technologies. Superconductors, which conduct electricity without resistance when cooled to low temperatures, promise a host of advances in electrical devices, including more powerful computers. 

In the latest discovery, researchers at the University of California in Los Angeles found that when cooled to 30 Kelvins, a compound made of buckyballs and the alkaline element rubidium showed signs of repelling a magnetic field -- a phenomenon that is one of the hallmarks of superconductivity and that might someday be used for levitating high-speed trains above the tracks. The scientists also clarified the recipe for making the previously discovered buckyball superconductor, which apparently contains three atoms of potassium for each buckyball. The work, led by Karoly Holczer, is reported in today's issue of the journal Science. 

Separately, a team at American Telephone & Telegraph Co.'s Bell Laboratories led by Matthew Rosseinsky has reported similar signs of superconductivity in a buckyball-rubidium compound at about 28 Kelvins. Their finding is expected to be published next week in the journal Physical Review Letters. A Bell Laboratories team last month first reported buckyball superconductivity at about 18 Kelvins, or minus 427 degrees Fahrenheit. 

Buckyball superconductors are now "getting into the interesting temperature range," said Donald Murphy, a Bell Laboratories research manager. He added that, unlike higher temperature superconductors, the buckyball ones conduct electricity equally well in all directions -- potentially making them easier to use. 

However, added Kelvin Lynn, head of applied physics at Brookhaven National Laboratory: "I wouldn't expect much higher" superconducting temperatures for buckyball compounds, because the so-called phonon mechanism that seemingly causes their superconductivity isn't thought to work at much higher temperatures. 

Document j000000020011109dn5o00d5e


More Like This

 Article 29 *******************    



Science: Silicon Atoms Manipulated In IBM Study 

By Laurence Hooper 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
692 words 
12 July 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Researchers at International Business Machines Corp. have plucked individual silicon atoms from a surface and placed them in precise locations, raising the possibility of electronic devices that could be built an atom at a time. 

The feat, reported in today's issue of Science, a weekly journal, follows a demonstration last year in which IBM scientists pulled individual atoms of xenon gas around to form patterns, such as the company's famous logo, on a metal surface. 

While both demonstrations used the same tool, an IBM-invented microscope, to manipulate atoms in precise ways, IBM said the new silicon technique was particularly relevant to its dream of building electronic circuits with parts that measure only one atom or one molecule across. 

By comparison, the circuitry in today's top-performance computer chips is measured in microns, or millionths of a meter -- at least 1,000 times coarser than atomic-scale devices, which would be measured in nanometers, or billionths of a meter. In theory, smaller circuitry permits faster, less expensive and more complex computing. 

A scientist at American Telephone & Telegraph Co.'s Bell Laboratories cautioned, however, that such advances remain far in the future. "This is a fine piece of work, but it's just one step further along the road," said researcher Russell Becker, who has demonstrated a similar but less-reliable technique with germanium atoms. "No one should think that they'll be making {electronic devices} this way next year." 

Indeed, much remains to be figured out, including mass-production techniques and even the form of the miniature parts themselves. At such tiny scales, electric particles obey the esoteric rules of quantum physics, meaning that conventional transistors can't easily be used. Instead, scientists are noodling around with different types of new devices, which go by names such as quantum wells and quantum dots. 

In addition to electronic applications, IBM said its new method could point the way toward modifying existing molecules by shunting their component atoms around, or even make it possible to build customized molecules, atom by atom. Since the method isn't limited to silicon, these capabilities might be useful in pharmaceutical and genetics research, which currently use different ways to customize molecules. 

IBM, based in Armonk, N.Y., said its latest demonstration was important because it showed that the so-called scanning tunneling microscope, or STM, can be used to break atoms free of strong chemical bonds to other atoms -- not just to pull around atoms of "noble" elements such as xenon, which interact very weakly with their surroundings. 

The STM, for whose invention two IBM scientists shared a Nobel Prize in 1987, is normally used in physics and materials laboratories to produce images of individual atoms and molecules. The microscope has a very slender tungsten tip that, when energized by a tiny electric current, can trace the atomic surface contours of many materials. 

Researchers at IBM and elsewhere have recently discovered, however, that the tip can also manipulate other atoms by picking them up, dropping them and dragging them. In an interview, IBM scientist Phaedron Avouris, one of the authors of the Science report, compared the STM tip to "a primitive robotic arm." 

In the latest experiment, a combination of electrical and chemical forces allows the tip to wrench silicon atoms away from their brethren on a solid surface. The tip is then moved, and the atoms are dumped at a predetermined location. "Since we have to yank atoms out of the solid, the amount of control is not so high" as in the xenon experiments, conceded Mr. Avouris, who said the entire process took only a fraction of a second. 

On the other hand, he noted, his demonstration had immediate relevance because it used silicon, the building block of today's electronic devices, rather than xenon. "Obviously, we had microelectronic applications in mind," he said. 

The latest demonstration was done in IBM's laboratory in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., while the earlier work with xenon was done independently in an IBM lab in San Jose, Calif. 

Document j000000020011109dn7c00g9g


More Like This

 Article 30 *******************    



Technology 

NEC Buckyball Test Yields Better Superconductivity 

193 words 
18 July 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B4 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

TOKYO -- NEC Corp. said it has built a better buckyball. 

The Japanese electronics company announced it has reached a new high superconductivity temperature for buckyballs -- spherical molecules of pure carbon -- by altering the mixing formula used in recent experiments by other scientists. 

Buckyballs have drawn much attention recently as the potential basis for new materials, batteries, and other technologies. Many scientists have also seized on the material as a potential superconductor, an element that conducts electricity without resistance and thus offers more-efficient electrical devices. 

The NEC team said it achieved superconductivity at 33 degrees Kelvin, or minus 204 degrees Celsius, by mixing the buckyballs with a blend of caesium and rubidium. 

In April and May, scientists at the University of California and at American Telephone & Telegraph Co. laboratories reported three separate successful experiments with buckyballs, reporting superconductivity at temperatures ranging from 18 degrees Kelvin to 30 degrees Kelvin. 

However, no one is offering any pending commercial applications for buckyballs yet, as the material's superconducting temperature is still far below the minus 160 degrees Celsius of liquid nitrogen, at which most promising superconductors operate. 

Document j000000020011109dn7i00i5k


More Like This

 Article 31 *******************    



Cover Story CREATING CHIPS AN ATOM AT A TIME --- Tiny 'nanosandwiches' grown in crystals will put a supercomputer's power in the palm of your hand 

Otis Port in New York 
1,903 words 
29 July 1991
Business Week 
Pg. 54 
Vol. Number 3224 
English
Copyright 1991 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Visitors to Praveen Chaudhari's lab used to stop in their tracks, perplexed by the scene before them: Candles gleamed alongside the exotic equipment used to explore materials and structures for tomorrow's chips. ''People would think we were praying,'' muses Chaudhari, a senior IBM scientist. But the candles had a down-to-earth purpose. His team was experimenting with semiconductor wires so tiny that the friction of a person moving through the air generated enough static electricity to zap the circuits. The candles solved that. Soot particles from their flames discharged the air, protecting the ''nanoelectronic'' devices. 

Nanoelectronics is the watchword of the coming revolution in semiconductors. Chipmakers are entering a realm where transistors will be too tiny to ''print''on silicon. Instead, they'll be ''grown'' in the material, as clusters of atoms. These devices will be measured in nanometers, or billionths of a meter. A fat human hair is 10,000 nanometers in diameter. The wires Chaudhari worked on a decade ago were 10 nanometers wide. BIG LEAP. Today, at key research centers in the U. S., Japan, and Europe, scientists are thinking even smaller. They talk in angstroms, or tenths of a nanometer, and they're making materials and devices by piling up elements in layers as thin as two angstroms--just a single atom thick. Tinier transistors can be packed more closely, which means more powerful circuits that run faster. So, when these technologies are perfected, they'll bring quantum leaps in performance to all things that use chips, from computers and cars to satellites and appliances. A shirt-pocket supercomputer may be in the cards, as well as memory chips that hold a library. 

The industry is going all out to make this happen. For the first 25 years after the integrated circuit was invented in 1959, the number of transistors per chip doubled every other year. Had auto makers done as well, ''a Rolls-Royce would cost $3 and get 100 million miles to the gallon,'' jokes George H. Heilmeier, president of Bell Communications Research Inc. (Bellcore). Since 1985, though, the growth rate for transistor counts has slipped a bit, according to market watcher Dataquest Inc., and it's headed lower. So chipmakers are turning to basic physics to keep the shrinking act going for another 25 years. 

Today's chip technology is based on bulk materials: The thinnest wires on the fastest chips are thousands of atoms across. But the day is coming--three chip generations from now--when bulk properties won't be able to cut it. The first dynamic random-access memories (DRAMs) of the next century won't be feasible without big breakthroughs. The reason: Below dimensions of 0.2 microns, or 200 nanometers, conventional transistors will be too minuscule to offset the dire effects of ''quantum tunneling.'' A phenomenon of quantum physics, tunneling occurs when electrons squirt right through solid matter and electrical barriers that, in bulk materials, are usually impassable. A 100-nanometer transistor would leak so many electrons when switched off, and release so few when turned on, that it wouldn't be reliable. 

''We are moving into a size range where we have to reexplore the physics involved in semiconductor devices,'' says Richard D. Skinner, president of consultant Integrated Circuit Engineering Corp. And that means devising technologies to harness quantum mechanics. 

Quantum transistors will be so tiny as to verge on the ethereal. And their switching speeds would, in theory, be 1,000 times as fast as anything around now. Building such critters, says Arno A. Penzias, vice-president for research at AT&T Bell Laboratories, will require radically new production methods that can ''create semiconductor structures atom by atom.'' How this might be done in factories is anyone's guess. But the tools will have to be very precise. G. Dan Hutcheson, president of consultant VLSI Research Inc., notes that in quantum electronics, ''a variation of just one or two atoms can make a drastic difference.'' In fact, Bell Labs has found that clusters of 13 silicon atoms behave so differently from clusters of any other size that ''Silicon-13'' is almost a distinct element. ''We're still trying to find out why,'' says Mark Jarrold, a Bell Labs researcher. 

A technique called band-gap engineering looks like the best way to harness quantum electronics. Band gap is physics-speak for the energy difference, or gap, that separates the electrons in an atom's outermost orbit, or band, from those in the next lower band. So, the band gap is the amount of energy that an electron must absorb to make a quantum jump to the highest orbit, where it's in a position to conduct electrical signals. ADDING OOMPH. Electrons by nature prefer to occupy the lowest possible energy band. So, scientists theorized, electron tunneling could be regulated by exploiting this tendency. The idea is to sandwich an ultrathin layer of a relatively good conductor between another material that's not so hot: gallium arsenide, say, between sheets of gallium aluminum arsenide. The good conductor's outermost electrons have less energy than those orbiting the other compound's atoms. As a result, the inner layer's electrons are trapped, unable to muster enough oomph to muscle past the higher-energy electrons of the surrounding atoms--unless outside energy, such as a switching signal, is applied. 

Scientists dubbed such hypothetical structures ''quantum wells'' and started dowsing for them in the 1960s, spearheaded by Bell Labs and IBM. But before they could slap nanosandwiches together, they had to identify the best pairings of materials and develop new methods for laying down ultrathin films. Finding the right recipes is critical because a chip must be a perfect crystal. When two elements are combined, each material's crystalline lattice, or arrangement of atoms, must match up exactly. Otherwise, the composite crystal's ''superlattice'' will contain structural flaws that can render a chip useless. Keeping tight reins on crystal growth requires some of the most esoteric machinery ever built. Take molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE). An MBE system creates the highest vacuum on earth. That's so molecules of air won't affect the atoms ejected by a sophisticated spray gun that is so precise it can ''paint'' wafers with successive coats of material that may be no more than a single atom thick. While the U. S. pioneered such techniques, Japan's consummate engineers are now at the cutting edge of some equipment. Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd., for instance, is experimenting with an innovative pulse-jet epitaxy (PJE) system that can produce gallium-based superlattice crystals with superior electrical properties. 

Still, it was a U. S. team that finally turned a quantum well into the first working quantum transistor. In the summer of 1988, Texas Instruments Inc. researchers led by Robert T. Bate discovered how to make a quantum well switch on and off. The trick is tickling the middle layer with a current of just the right voltage while pulsing it at just the right frequency. Suddenly, the band-gap barriers topple, and electrons zip across the inner layer--so fast that it's hard to measure the transistor's switching speed. Roughly, it's 5 femtoseconds, or quadrillionths of a second. By comparison, it takes light, traveling at 186,000 miles per second, some 200 femtoseconds to traverse the period at the end of this sentence. 

More recently, these tools and techniques have yielded what may be the biggest breakthrough yet: silicon-based materials with features similar to those of gallium arsenide, once considered the chip material of the future. That wasn't supposed to happen. Band-gap engineering is possible only in semiconductors made from two materials, and they must be essentially identical crystals. Silicon's nearest cousin is germanium--not a close match. But nearly a decade ago, Bernard S. Meyerson, an IBM physicist, decided to give it a whirl. ''Rule No. 1 in this business is never bet on what somebody can't do,'' he says. What he found is that silicon alloys containing 5% to 10% germanium are sufficiently elastic to grow into defect-free crystals. ''By getting the dimensional control down to the atomic level,'' says Meyerson, ''you can do pretty amazing things.'' 

The first transistors fabricated with Meyerson's hybrid clocked in more than a year ago with a switching speed of 75 gigahertz, or 75 billion on/off cycles per second. That's nearly double silicon's previous record of 40 gigahertz and far above the 45-gigahertz level where silicon was supposed to top out. Switching speeds continue to improve, though Meyerson won't say by how much. But even the initial mark provides so much new latitude that gallium arsenide may never replace silicon, declares John A. Armstrong, IBM's vice-president for science and technology. For chipmakers, that's sweet music. Changing over to gallium arsenide would cost a bundle and mean that three decades of knowhow would get scrapped. 

Every major chipmaker has now launched silicon-germanium projects. Still, researchers have barely dented the mix of technologies needed to build quantum-effect chips. Today's chief challenge is to find a way of connecting thousands of quantum transistors in an integrated circuit. Printed-metal connections won't do. Even if the wires could be slimmed down vastly, they might melt, since resistance in metal conductors rises rapidly as size diminishes. WISPY LINES. So, researchers are looking to band-gap engineering to fashion quantum wires. Scientists at Tokyo Institute of Technology and Stuttgart University use pinpoint beams of electrons or ions to scribe wispy lines in semiconductors. Then, a better conductor is deposited in the channel and masked with the original material. That's how Bellcore produced the first quantum-wire laser last year. Its gallium arsenide core had a cross-section only 30 atoms high by 300 atoms wide. Yet many scientists consider that too bulky. Learning to grow finer quantum wires in the crystal, along with quantum transistors, is one focus of research at facilities such as the Center for Quantized Electronic Structures, established in 1989 at the University of California at Santa Barbara. And Japan's Ministry of International Trade & Industry is launching a 10-year nanotech initiative that it hopes will be supported by dozens of companies to the tune of $100 million or more. 

When it all comes together, the wonders of nanoelectronics should dwarftoday's digital marvels. ''Because weare learning how atoms carry on and how that affects properties,'' saysSimon Ramo, retired co-founder of TRW Inc., computers and other high-tech gadgets will no longer be limited by nature's materials. And chipmakers may soon make their wildest material dreams come true. 

Photograph: IBM researcher Praveen Chaudhari burns candles in his lab to clear from the air traces of static electricity that could zap his nanoelectronic devices PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER GREGOIRE Photograph: SEEING ATOMS Scientists got their first clear look at individual atoms--shown here in a germanium semiconductor crystal--after IBM invented the scanning-tunneling microscope Photograph: SPOTTING DEFECTS Imperfections in a semiconductor crystal, such as the atoms missing at center, can be 'circuit killers.' A printed 'wire' wouldn't bridge the gap, so the chip wouldn't work 


Document bw00000020011109dn7t0005h


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 32 *******************    



Cover Story THE NEW ALCHEMY --- HOW SCIENCE IS MOLDING MOLECULES INTO MIRACLE MATERIALS 

Naomi Freundlich in New York, with Neil Gross in Tokyo, John Carey in Washington, and Robert D. Hof in San Francisco 
3,594 words 
29 July 1991
Business Week 
Pg. 48 
Vol. Number 3224 
English
Copyright 1991 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

It isn't exactly Terminator 2, whose ''mimetic polyalloy'' villain melts and recomposes as it stalks its hapless victims. But in a lab in Evanston, Ill., a version of this Hollywood fantasy--more modest, but then it's real--is being brought to life. Using new modeling software that incorporates a wealth of knowledge from the exploding field of materials research, Gregory B. Olson, a Northwestern University professor, is designing entirely new substances, atom by atom. Olson and a group of students are hot on the trail of custom-made ceramic superconductors and ultrahigh-strength plastics, but alloys are their top priority. They already have one success, a mixture of atoms from five metals so precise that finding it by trial and error might have required ''a few zillion'' attempts. The resulting extra-tough steel is being tested for bearings in space-shuttle engine turbo pumps, which now must be rebuilt after every flight. 

Materials have always influenced the basic fabric of life. The Stone, Bronze, and Iron Ages marked key periods when humans fashioned materials into new tools that vastly improved their lot. So it is with the latest--and most sweeping--revolution in materials science. Using ultraprecise new technologies, researchers are probing worlds far tinier than the submicroscopic realm of viruses. Like voyeurs peeping into a particularly raucous party, they are peering into the world of atoms and unlocking the secrets of how they interact. Then, using technology developed primarily to deal with the rapidly decreasing dimensions of microelectronics, modern-day alchemists are rearranging molecules--and even atoms--to assemble novel substances from scratch. 

Often, the most commercial results of this wizardry are, like Olson's steel, offshoots of existing materials. But researchers are also probing the unknown. They're making ''aerogels,'' airy silicon concoctions that far outperform the best insulators; ceramics pliable enough for use in car or jet engines; and composites embedded with artificial ''nerves'' and ''muscles'' that let them respond to stress almost as a living thing would. With such substances in mind, scientists dream of cars that are big yet light and fuel-efficient, and of passenger jets that are light enough to soar to the edge of space and hop the Pacific in a couple of hours. In the $300 billion electronics industry, new materials are pushing the speed of chips and computers to the edge of physical limits. These advances, leading eventually to products such as handheld supercomputers, will ''change the way we live,'' says Harry F. Lockwood, director of GTE Laboratories Inc.'s Advanced Components Technology Center. 

The promise of such exotica should boost a science that some say has been neglected lately. Since 1980, federal nondefense support for materials R&D has fallen 17% in real dollars. Industry support has plummeted, too, experts add, while Germany and Japan, among others, are pumping money into the field. A 1989 report by the National Research Council found that America's competitive position in metals and ceramics is declining vis-a-vis Japan's and that Germany and Britain have caught up. To stay in the game, says the Materials Research Society, a trade group, U. S. government and industry need to add $1.25 billion to the $3 billion a year they now spend on materials R&D. Confronted with losing ground in a $148 billion world market, the usually laissez-faire Bush Administration seems abnormally concerned. In April, David L. Huber, acting executive director of the National Critical Materials Council,announced an Administration materials-research initiative. The White House Office of Science & Technology Policy, with which Huber's group is affiliated, wants to add ''hundreds of millions in new and reprogrammed dollars'' for materials research, probably in the 1993 federal budget. And Huber wants to sharpen R&D priorities: ''It's not clear that we are doing all we should with the money we have,'' he says. 

He is trying to reignite a movement whose roots reach back to the 1960s, when researchers began large-scale production of molecules that nature overlooked. The result was an explosion in synthetics that revolutionized industries such as packaging, homebuilding, and textiles. Today, athletes use carbon-fiber-reinforced golf clubs, polypropylene sweatsuits that draw sweat away from the body, and waterproof jackets that ''breathe.'' Scientists know so much about how the chemical structure of a polymer--a chain of repeating molecules--dictates its function that researchers can sit down at computers and noodle together materials with the desired qualities. This means that ''instead of 10-year development cycles'' for finished products, ''we'll see results in 3 to 5 years,'' says Donald P. Knechtges, vice-president for marketing at B. F. Goodrich Co.'s Geon Div. in Cleveland. 

The most dramatic advances have come in electronics (page 54 46 ). To meet the increasing demand for improved performance in storing and processing data, researchers are working harder than ever on techniques and equipment to shrink silicon circuitry. One of the newest tools is the scanning-tunneling microscope, a machine that uncovers incredibly accurate information about the positions of individual atoms on surfaces. Couple the STM with advances in computer modeling, and ''we can model how molecules place themselves on a substrate without doing exhaustive hunt-and-peck experiments,'' says Frank Fradin, associate director of physical sciences at Argonne National Laboratory, near Chicago. Now, scientists are using these same tools and insights to fashion materialsto improve everything from planes to bridges to artificial body parts. ENGINEERED MATERIALS These alchemists follow a less greedy pursuit than the Merlins of old, who sought to turn lead into gold. In its most practical form, the new alchemy seeks to devise better versions of structural materials--the metals, composites, and ceramics that permeate everyday life. A modest-sounding endeavor, it's nonetheless likely to produce vast riches. In a decade, Japanese industry alone expects to be using $90 billion a year worth of such products. 

Ceramics will be one of the hottest sellers. These nonmetallic materials are superstrong and can withstand extreme heat, holding out the promise of hotter burning, more efficient engines needed for jets and low-polluting cars. But ceramics are brittle, which limits their use. Now, by adding small amounts of polymers or fiber ''whiskers,'' researchers are developing much more ductile varieties. ''If you can remove their deficiencies, you can open ceramics to a wide, wide range of applications,'' says Richard W. Siegel, an Argonne researcher. That could include everything from lighter, more durable engine parts to flexible superconducting wire and tougher cutting tools. 

Metal alloys are getting a face-lift, too. For instance, a 15-year, $6 billion initiative jointly funded by the U. S. defense agencies, NASA, and seven jet-engine makers aims to double the thrust of aircraft engines by the year 2003 without increasing their size or weight. ''Today's titanium alloys and nickel alloys don't have the necessary strength or temperature capabilities, and they're too heavy,'' says James S. Petty, manager for the project at Wright Paterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. But by using new alloys, Petty's team is nearing its first-step goal of a 30% increase in the ratio of engine thrust to weight, plus a 20% gain in fuel efficiency. These improvements will show up in the new stealth fighter's engines, to be built by Pratt & Whitney. 

One obstacle has been finding key engine-parts materials that can withstand temperatures of up to 800F, the point at which more of the oxygen entering an engine combines with fuel, creating greater efficiency. Titanium, a traditional jet-engine metal, will burn up at that temperature, says Petty. So, his researchers are looking to so-called intermetallics--mixtures that go beyond chemical bonding by intertwining differing atoms within the same crystal structure. Made of titanium and aluminum, or of nickel and aluminum, intermetallics are superlight and can withstand temperatures up to 1,400F. Adding ceramic fibers to these creates composites that are three times as strong, by weight, as current alloys used in jet engines, Petty adds. ATOMSCOPIC MATERIALS Improved structural materials may be the most practical products of the new research. But, not content with mere variations, the most aggressive new alchemists are flirting with creation--developing entire new classes of materials. These will foster big advances in electronics and elsewhere. Argonne's Siegel, for example, is forming clusters of atoms, called crystalline grains, into superdense ceramics or metals. In these ''nanophase materials,'' each crystal is less than 100 nanometers, or billionths ofa meter, across. Thatis smaller than mostviruses. The individual grains of most metals or ceramics consist of millions or billions of atoms. But the grains that make up nanophase materials contain just a few thousand. After these grains are squeezed, under pressure, into a solid material, they exhibit remarkable properties. Siegel's superdense ceramics can be bent and molded like plastics and extruded or formed into a final shape without the shrinkage normally typical of ceramics. Nanophase versions of metals such as copper or palladium are five times as strong as their larger-grained counterparts. Siegel is also fashioning nanophase composites--combining tiny crystals of ceramics with metals--and he is working on forming unusual metallic alloys. ''There are astounding opportunities,'' he says. 

Scientists aren't sure why nanophase materials act as they do, but Siegel says that the size of the crystalline grains plays a big role. Nanophase metals, for example, are so strong because it requires a lot of energy to force cracks among the close-knit grains. For research purposes, Siegel's group usually makes only penny-size disks of nanophase materials. But, he says, ''there's nothing in the process that prevents it from being scaled up.'' In late 1989, in fact, Siegel helped found a company to commercialize the Argonne work. Called Nanophase Technologies Corp., it is making up to several grams of the materials per hour. ''I suspect within a year we'll be at the kilogram-per-hour stage,'' he says. The first use for nanophase materials will be in electronics--ceramic chips and optical devices--and in making catalysts to drive chemical reactions. 

The Japanese, meanwhile, are hot on the trail of designer compounds called functionally gradient materials (FGMs). These combos of ordinarily incompatible materials--metal and ceramics--remain stable over perhaps a 1,000-degree range of temperature and withstand searing heat--more than 3,000F. That would make them useful for everything from lining space planes to making turbine blades for nuclear power plants. Researchers have known that a ''sandwich'' of metals and ceramics could provide unusual heat resistance and elasticity. But the sandwich usually peels apart under thermal or mechanical stress. 

To avoid that, the Japanese use techniques with names such as chemical vapor deposition and particle injection to lay down multiple, ultrathin layers that gradually transform a material from 100% metal to a 50-50 mixture to 100% ceramic. This eliminates the sharp boundary where the ceramic ends and the metal begins. So, the new material stays together. Japan's Science & Technology Agency first advanced the notion of FGMs as a basic research project in 1986. Already, steelmakers NKK and Nippon Steel have taken up the challenge, as has Toshiba Ceramics. ''If it is a good idea, money flows in that direction,'' says Toshikazu Ishii, deputy director of the STA's office of material science and technology. SMART MATERIALS As impressive as all this sounds, for some engineers the new alchemy implies the metaphysical. They want to impart the ultimate property: a crude sort of intelligence that infuses materials with artificial ''nerves'' and ''muscles.'' Because these altered ceramics and composites sense changes in their environment and then react accordingly, they are called smart materials. 

At Michigan State University, for example, Mukesh V. Gandhi and Brian Thompson are working on an adaptive helicopter rotor that can sense turbulence and stiffen in response. The Air Force is sponsoring work on a smart ceramic for the leading edge of airplane wings: It would adjust its shape to achieve maximum lift under changing conditions and thus improve fuel efficiency and safety. And Robert E. Newnham, professor of solid state science at Pennsylvania State University, is developing a ''stealthy'' material for submarine hulls that flexes to change shape and reduce underwater turbulence. That would help a sub escape detection by underwater listening systems. 

One key to making materials ''smart'' is to imbed in them nonmechanical materials that change their shape or physical state without using moving parts. Electro-rheological fluids are one such family: They change from a liquid to a solid milliseconds after a small electric current is applied. By scattering these fluids throughout a ceramic, Gandhi and Thompson can dampen vibration in their rotor. Sensors on the outside of it pick up damage or turbulence, then send a signal to stiffen the rotor blades. 

In a variation on this concept, Craig A. Rogers, director of Virginia Polytechnic Institute's Center for Intelligent Materials Systems & Structures, adds wires of nickel-titanium alloy to the graphite-reinforced composites used in everything from aircraft to tennis rackets. The nickel-titanium alloy is one of a family of so-called shape-memory metals--they remember their shape when heated. Rogers says that normally, graphite-reinforced epoxy loses half its stiffness when the temperature goes over 300F--not a pleasant prospect in a high-performance airplane wing. But ''with the memory fibers, the graphite epoxy increases its stiffness at the higher temperatures,'' he says. When heated, as in flight, the fibers try to return to their remembered shape, adding energy to the material. The resulting composite is more than 10 times as stiff at high temperatures as those used in aircraft now. BIOMIMETICS Attempts to imitate life are at the foundation, too, of biomimetics, perhaps the most revolutionary new materials approach. For this, scientists look to nature for inspiration, to materials as varied as abalone shell, sharkskin, and insect exoskeletons. They start from the view that Mother Nature offers the supreme models: ''As far as we know, her failures are extinct,'' says Lieutenant Colonel George A. Haritos, associate director of the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR). ''We are mimicking the best she can offer.'' 

For instance, Ilhan A. Askay, professor of materials science and engineering at the University of Washington, was intrigued by the shell of the abalone--a flattened, ear-shaped mollusk shell made from calcium carbonate, or common chalk--that is hard to break even if a 300-lb. beachcomber steps on it. When viewed under an electron microscope, the shell represented a near-perfect imitation, so to speak, of a ceramic composite. Using higher-tech materials but enlisting the abalone as a model for arranging the molecules, Askay has synthesized an impact-resistant tank armor that's twice as tough as the man-made ceramics now used. The U. S. Army is testing his armor at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California. 

One of the systems AFOSR researcher Fred L. Hedberg sees benefiting from biomimetics is the proposed national aerospace plane, which would enter low orbit during its two-hour trip from New York to Tokyo. It would carry a much greater load than the space shuttle, but to reach the right speed and altitude, it must weigh less. That's where biomimetics comes in, says Hedberg, who has studied the strong yet lightweight exoskeleton of the horned beetle. ''When nature builds a protective coating for an insect, it also permits the animal to breathe through it, insulates it, and provides all kinds of sensing devices.'' A multifunctional skin that removes heat and senses damage would be particularly useful for the aerospace plane. 

The exoskeleton is also resilient. ''It is designed to absorb enormous amounts of energy in relative terms before it breaks down,'' says Haritos. Such a quality is important because one of the biggest barriers to using composite materials in aircraft wings is concern that the composite will fail catastrophically after suffering limited damage. In the beetle, nature has designed in damage control. Conventional composites are reinforced with graphite fibers--all round, and all the same diameter. Nature's composites are far more complex, made from intertwining fibers that often themselves are composites. And the fibers vary in shape from round to extreme oval. ''This complex structure is something man is just now experimenting with,'' says Haritos. ''But it is the wave of the future.'' 

With an explosion in the number of new materials coming out of labs, it isn't clear yet what all the uses might be. Take carbon 60--a new form of carbon synthesized in bulk just two years ago. The 60 carbon atoms of this substance are organized in a soccer-ball shape reminiscent of R. Buckminster Fuller's geodesic domes. Called ''buckyballs,'' they may be used for lubricants, high-temperature superconductors, or as the foundation for new plastics. Aerogels, developed at Lawrence Livermore last year, have enormous potential. Often called ''frozen smoke,'' they incorporate superior insulating abilities in one of the world's lightest known solids. Livermore researchers envision them replacing foam insulation, whose manufacture is implicated in the destruction of the ozone layer. A Swedish company, Airglass, is trying to drum up interest in using them in insulated windows. 

These and other discoveries may mark the 90s as the golden age for materials science. With new federal support, the U. S. could regain some of its edge. But money is just part of the equation, says Argonne's Fradin. In Japan, companies, not academic or government labs, form the cutting edge: Nearly 75% of funding for materials work in Japan comes from industry, vs. half in the U. S. 

The challenge, in short, is to envision products from promising technologies. And that, say researchers, has been the stumbling block for U. S. industry. ''Even if we think we have something very hot, it's hard to get companies interested,'' says Fradin. ''If any Japanese researchers are passing through, they jump all over it.'' Anders Westerberg, founder of Airglass, says the U. S. and European companies he has approached in search of $7 million for a commercial-scale aerogel plant have held back, concerned about how long it will take to turn a profit. But four or five Japanese companies are interested. And ''when I tell them it will take several years to see any kind of payback, they say that's O. K.'' 

Ultimately, the impact of designer materials research will be strikingly evident in the world around us. Faster trains, stronger buildings, and more lifelike artificial limbs will all carry the mark of the modern-day alchemist. New materials will also play an integral role in solving some of society's most pressing problems, from cleaning up the environment to reducing energy consumption. All in all, it's an even better goal than transforming lead into gold. BIOMIMETICS Nature provides the molecular architecture for some of the most interesting new materials. The abalone shell is an excellent example of a ceramic composite made mainly from a simple material--chalk. Its relatively high strength comes from the unique way in which its molecules are arranged, in a brick-and-mortar pattern with a natural polymer acting as the glue between the chalk 'bricks.' Using higher-tech materials but enlisting the abalone as a model, researchers have synthesized an impact-resistant tank armor that's twice as tough as any man-made ceramic and more effective than today's armor. Other researchers are looking to insect exoskeletons and sharkskin as models for materials for advanced aircraft. The idea is that through evolution, nature's materials have passed the important test of time ENGINEERED MATERIALS These are variations on the metals, plastics, composites, and ceramics that already are used in large quantities in industries as diverse as aerospace, autos, and construction. Now, scientists are engineering into these materials such high-performance properties as increased strength and stiffness, lighter weight, and higher temperature resistance. Some examples include superstrong, corrosion-resistant alloys and flexible ceramics that can be molded into engine parts. Improved structural materials hold the greatest promise for near-term profits ATOMSCOPIC MATERIALS Using techniques developed in the race to make smaller, faster semiconductors, scientists are rearranging atoms into novel substances. By layering thin films of different elements--some just an atom or two thick--researchers can design in superconductivity or high strength. They also are working with so-called nanophase materials made up of grains that contain just a few thousand atoms. Among the results are high-strength metals and pliable ceramics SMART MATERIALS Usually metals, ceramics, or composites, these are embedded with sensors and actuators that give them some of the characteristics of living things. They can sense changes in their surroundings and then respond to them. In cars, for example, researchers have already developed smart suspension systems that dampen vibration. They are also working on smart bridges laden with sensors that will alert engineers if a girder is about to fail, and on helicopter rotors that stiffen in response to turbulence. The military envisions smart submarine hulls that can alter their acoustic characteristics to avoid detection by enemy sonar 

Photograph: SMOKE SCREEN: SUPERLIGHT AEROGELS MAKE EXCELLENT INSULATORS PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER MENZEL Photograph: IN ARGONNE'S NANOPHASE LAB: CERAMICS THAT BEND AND SUPERSTRONG METALS PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL L. ABRAMSON 


Document bw00000020011109dn7t00071


More Like This

 Article 33 *******************    



Technology 

Buckyballs Indicate Superconductivity At Higher Operating Temperatures 

By David Stipp 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
609 words 
5 August 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B2 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

PHILADELPHIA -- New buckyball superconductors have unexpectedly emerged as compounds of commercial interest with the discovery that their operating temperature may go much higher than thought a few weeks ago. 

Buckyballs -- spherical molecules of carbon -- are formally called buckminsterfullerene due to their resemblance to the geodesic domes of architect Buckminster Fuller. Their possible uses aren't clear yet, but they have repeatedly startled scientists during the past year by showing odd properties that may lead to everything from new high-strength polymers to novel electrical devices. 

One of the properties is superconductivity -- conducting electricity without resistance -- which scientists discovered this spring in buckyballs mixed with potassium or with certain other related elements called alkali metals. 

At a scientific meeting here this weekend, Allied-Signal Inc. researchers reported they had found signs of superconductivity in a buckyball compound at about 43 degrees Kelvin, or minus 382 degrees Fahrenheit -- some 10 degrees Kelvin higher than the maximum that many scientists earlier had thought possible with such compounds. 

The finding moves the new materials substantially closer to the temperature realm of "high temperature" ceramic superconductors, which were discovered five years ago and work at the temperature of liquid nitrogen, 77 degrees Kelvin, or minus 320 degrees Fahrenheit. The discovery also showed researchers how they probably can make the new compounds work at even higher temperatures. 

"The experiments to do are obvious," in the race to achieve superconductivity at higher temperatures with buckyballs, said Donald Murphy, a research manager at American Telephone & Telegraph Co.'s Bell Laboratories. "The question now is who will be able to do them first." 

When scientists discovered buckyball superconductivity this spring, the phenomenon occurred at much lower temperatures than in the ceramic superconductors, however, so it has been regarded more as a scientific curiosity than a commercial prospect. 

The Allied-Signal team's advance was made by mixing the metallic element thallium with a buckyball superconductor. Researchers don't fully understand why that raised the material's superconducting temperature. But they now believe a simple rule applies: The farther apart buckyball molecules are in the compound's crystal lattice, the higher the superconducting temperature will go -- the thallium addition spread out the buckyballs, demonstrating the rule. 

Now researchers are racing to insert other atoms into buckyball crystals in hopes of getting still higher superconducting temperatures. If the buckyball superconductors top liquid nitrogen temperature, they may become the compounds of choice in developing more efficient motors, faster computers and other technologies promised by superconductivity. 

"I think the {buckyball superconducting} temperature will go up," said Paul Chu, a leading superconductor researcher at the University of Houston. But Mr. Chu, who attended the buckyball conference here at the University of Pennsylvania, cautioned that the new superconductors still must pass tests of stability, current-carrying capacity and other things to be commercially valuable. 

Researchers sprang several other buckyball surprises at the meeting that should further heighten interest in the compounds. Fred Wudl, a researcher at the University of California at Santa Barbara, reported that a buckyball compound showed a form of magnetism at low temperatures -- scientists have long sought magnetism in carbon-based compounds in order to make cheap plastic magnets. Houston's Mr. Chu reported a bizarre new form of superconductivity involving buckyballs. And Richard Smalley, a leading buckyball researcher at Rice University in Houston, reported "tentative but tantalizing" evidence that his team had been able to place potassium atoms inside buckyballs. If confirmed, the ability to "shrink wrap" atoms inside buckyballs would open up a new "animal zoo" in chemistry, he said. 

Document j000000020011109dn8500kyw


More Like This

 Article 34 *******************    



Technology 

IBM Scientists Create a Switch With One Atom 

By Laurence Hooper 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
806 words 
15 August 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

LONDON -- Researchers at International Business Machines Corp. have demonstrated a tiny switch that depends on the motion of a single atom, making it the smallest electronic device in existence. 

While any practical application is likely to be more than a decade away, the advance shows that such minuscule devices aren't beyond the reach of current technology. Coupled with other recent breakthroughs, the new "atom switch" raises the possibility that electronic circuits may someday be built with parts measuring only an atom or molecule across. 

By comparison, the circuitry in today's top-performance computer chips is measured in microns, or millionths of a meter, at least 1,000 times coarser than atomic-scale devices, which would be measured in nanometers, or billionths of a meter. In theory, smaller circuitry permits faster, less-expensive and more-complex computing. 

The technological feat, reported in today's issue of Nature, a British science journal, is the latest trick to be performed by an IBM-invented tool known as the scanning tunneling microscope. The STM, for which two IBM scientists shared a Nobel Prize in 1987, was initially used to produce images of individual atoms and molecules, but it's emerging as an all-purpose instrument for manipulating individual atoms with startling precision. 

Scientists at IBM and elsewhere have previously used the STM to move around atoms on a surface to form patterns such as the IBM logo, as well as to pluck atoms from a surface and deposit them elsewhere, much like a robotic arm. The microscope has a very slender tungsten tip that, when energized by a tiny electric current, can trace and manipulate the atomic surface contours of many materials. 

Donald Eigler, one of the authors of the Nature report, said in an interview that the new switch builds on previous STM research done at his lab in San Jose, Calif., including the IBM logo stunt last year. Working at an extremely low temperature, he has been using the STM to move atoms of xenon around on a nickel surface. 

Mr. Eigler said he and his colleagues recognized almost immediately that they might make a switch using the STM but were stymied by the thought that it should look something like a transistor, the building block of today's electronic circuits. 

Finally, he said, they realized that a much simpler device might be made that would merely shuttle a xenon atom back and forth between the STM's tip and the metal surface. "Once that idea got through my thick skull, the principle took only a half-day or a day's work to demonstrate," he said. "It was quite simple." 

When the xenon atom is on the tip of the STM, more electrical current flows between the tip and the surface than when the atom is on the surface. That gives the switch "on" and "off" positions that can be used to transmit or store digital information, the language of ones and zeros that makes computers tick. 

"There are very few times in the life of a scientist when he realizes that he's seeing something that no one has ever seen," said Mr. Eigler of the first time he saw the switch working. "That's the highest high there is for a scientist, and this was one of those moments for me. It's the stuff that keeps scientists going," said Mr. Eigler, who spoke from Switzerland, where he is attending a conference to mark the 10th anniversary of the STM's invention. He said he's giving a presentation on his atom switch tomorrow. 

Of course, huge obstacles remain -- not least the fact that Mr. Eigler's tiny switch needs a vacuum around it, operates at extremely low temperatures and has an expensive STM attached, making it impractical as an everyday electronic device. In a related article in Nature, Stanford University scientist C.F. Quate notes that even if many problems were solved, using Mr. Eigler's atom switches to store information would still be prohibitively slow. 

To overcome the speed barrier, Mr. Quate calls for research into "massively parallel" systems that could operate many atom switches at a time. He holds out the tantalizing possibility that the contents of the Library of Congress might one day be stored on a 12-inch disk. 

Mr. Eigler endorsed the idea of parallel systems but also suggested that some molecules may already exist that could act as the kind of switch he has demonstrated, making possible mass-production of "buckets" of atom switches. "Of course, the truth is that we don't know whether this technology will be stillborn or not," Mr. Eigler said. "But the only way to find out is to go after it." 

Document j000000020011109dn8f00kav


More Like This

 Article 35 *******************    



Technology 

Researchers Find a Way to Form Film Of Diamond Using Carbon `Buckyballs' 

By David Stipp 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
777 words 
6 November 1991
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B4 
English
(Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Buckyballs may be a diamond researcher's best friend. 

In a finding that promises to accelerate development of revolutionary diamond-coated products, scientists at Northwestern University said they've discovered a way to more easily crystallize thin films of diamond. The technique employs spherical carbon molecules called buckyballs -- stuff found in soot -- to help generate the diamond films. 

The advance could make it easier to put tough diamond coatings on tools, eyeglasses, razor blades, watch faces, ball bearings and a host of other products, greatly extending their useful life. It also could help researchers make large single crystals of diamond -- a prerequisite to developing faster, smaller computers based on diamond semiconductors. 

In a report last year, the U.S. National Research Council said new diamond-coating techniques are some of the most important technology advances of the past decade and "may well outstrip" new superconductors in economic importance. But the techniques employ a crystallizing process called chemical vapor deposition, or CVD, which requires the surfaces to be coated with diamond grit and is difficult to use with curved or irregular surfaces. Using buckyballs as molecular seeds for growing diamond films, engineers should be able to dispense with the diamond-grit treatment, easily coat curved surfaces and more cheaply cover large surfaces with diamond, said R.P.H. Chang, who led the Northwestern team. 

If confirmed, the method would be "a very important achievement" said John Angus, a prominent diamond-film researcher at Case Western Reserve University. The finding also may shed light on how diamond crystallizes during the CVD process, which is little understood at the molecular level. That may someday enable scientists to control the process well enough to synthesize large, gem-like diamonds cheaper than they can be mined -- a longstanding dream in diamond research. 

The finding also may lead to the first major commercial use of buckyballs, tiny balls of pure carbon formally called buckminsterfullerenes because they resemble the geodesic domes of architect Buckminster Fuller. In the past year, scientists have peppered technical journals with startling discoveries on buckyballs' properties and have dreamed up many possible uses for them, from lubricants to rocket fuel. The Northwestern University discovery, expected to be reported in detail next month in the journal Applied Physics Letters, suggests buckyball payoffs may come faster than expected. 

The Northwestern team's diamond recipe is based on a buckyball variant with 70 carbon atoms. After placing a thin layer of the balls on a silicon surface, the scientists blasted them with electrically charged particles -- a step that apparently rips open the tops of the balls to form molecular structures conducive to diamond formation. Using CVD methods, the scientists then passed a mixture of natural gas and hydrogen over the frayed buckyballs. The balls act as seed crystals, allowing many tiny diamonds to form from the carbon in the natural gas. 

Using a variation on this theme, researchers may be able to form diamond film resembling a large, single crystal for use in electronic applications, Dr. Chang added. 

Diamond films are expected to have huge markets because the material holds records for hardness and ability to conduct heat, and it is highly corrosion-resistant. Diamond films also potentially can be made into semiconductors needed for computer chips that work at very high temperatures, enabling them to be packed in denser arrays than in current computers. Diamond-coated products are beginning to reach the market for a few special applications, such as high-priced audio speakers and devices to carry heat away from laser components. Recently, sunglasses with scratch-resistant films of "diamond-like" material -- crystals chemically similar to diamonds but easier to make and less tough than the real thing -- have been testmarketed in the U.S., said Jim Russell, editor of Diamond Depositions Science and Technology, a newsletter based in Somerset, N.J. 

In a separate discovery, researchers at Japan's NEC Corp. reported last month at a scientific conference in Richmond, Va., that they had discovered a tubular form of buckyballs. The new "buckytubes' -- long cylindrical meshes of carbon atoms capped by domes resembling buckyballs cut in half -- may be the strongest fibers ever made, according to an article on the conference to appear in next month's issue of Scientific American. Besides promising super-strong new materials, the buckytubes may be able to spontaneously rejoin if broken -- a kind of "self-healing," said Richard Smalley, a Rice University buckyball researcher. Researchers already are spinning theories about the tubes, including predictions that they will conduct electricity, he added. 

Document j000000020011109dnb600ssp


More Like This

 Article 36 *******************    



Science & Technology SCIENCE'S AMAZING NEW BUILDING BLOCKS --- Fullerenes may lead researchers in undreamed-of directions 

Gary McWilliams in Boston, with John Carey in Washington and Neil Gross in Tokyo 
1,340 words 
9 December 1991
Business Week 
Pg. 76 
Vol. Number 3243 
English
Copyright 1991 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

At first glance, chemist Richard E. Smalley's laboratory at Rice Uni versity in Houston looks more like a welding operation than a research center. In one corner, a Sears arc welder vaporizes a carbon rod. In the searing 2,500C heat of the machine, atoms of common carbon--as in pencil lead--cling together in a grimy soot. But that black powder contains a miracle of chemistry: carbon atoms that have combined in never-before-seen shapes--molecular soccer balls, tubes, and even a helical form. 

In these strangely shaped molecules, called fullerenes, scientists have discovered a gold mine of tantalizing possibilities. This new form of carbon displays unique properties. Linking up these molecules or playing other chemical tricks, scientists say, could create new catalysts, superstrong plastics, superconductors that carry electricity without resistance, and even optical switches. ''We are playing with the building blocks for totally new materials,'' says Smalley. BREAKTHROUGH. Six years ago, it was Smalley and British researcher Harry W. Kroto of the University of Sussex who, while studying large molecules together, discovered structures composed of 60 carbon atoms arranged in soccer-ball-like spheres. They were dubbed ''buckminster fullerenes'' and ''buckyballs'' after the geodesic domes created by inventor R. Buckminster Fuller. But the substance--the first new form of carbon discovered since the 1800s--remained a curiosity until last year, when scientists at the University of Arizona and the University of Heidelberg, working independently, figured out how to produce millions of fullerenes in an electric arc. 

Since then, like children modeling Play-Doh, researchers at Du Pont, NEC, AT&T, and universities such as UCLA, UC Santa Barbara, and Rice have been squeezing the material through chemical sieves, baking it in ovens, and lacing it with metals and plastics. On Dec. 5, they plan to explain their latest gains at the Materials Research Society in Boston. The research shows scientists are just beginning to decipher the nature of these amazing molecules--and guess at their ultimate applications. ''We haven't scratched the surface of what might come out of work on fullerenes,'' says Mark M. Ross, program manager at the Office of Naval Research, which funds some of the research. 

Scientists are intrigued with fullerenes because carbon is so important in all aspects of life. It is the basis of carbohydrates, proteins, fats, and other components of cells. And it is at the heart of industrial economies--in carbon-based fossil fuels, petroleum-based plastics, and other chemicals. Carbon atoms also form strong bonds between one another, a characteristic that gives diamonds their strength. 

Fullerenes are already helping researchers who are trying to produce single diamond crystals to make superfast computer chips. In October, RobertChang, head of the materials research center at Northwestern University, vaporized graphite and used the resulting fullerenes to make an ultrathin film. He was able to grow multiple diamond crystals on top of the film. The result was thousands of times better than similar efforts on silicon have been. The next trick: finding a way to use fullerene thin films to cultivate single diamond crystals that are needed for circuitry. 

Because the shape of molecules plays a part in determining the properties of a substance, scientists believe the quirky fullerenes may open up new worlds. In September, University of California at Los Angeles chemist Francois N. Diederich reported that some fullerenes resemble the double-helix structure of human genes in DNA. What's more, helix-like fullerenes have right-handed and left-handed versions, similar to biological molecules. ''That is a very profound property,'' says Diederich, who predicts the two versions may help chemists produce purer drugs with fewer side effects. Fullerenes can also change the wavelength of light, a property that might eventually be harnessed to produce optical switches for communication. PINCHED AND PULLED. In October, Sumio Iijima, a research fellow at NEC Corp.'s Fundamental Research Lab near Tokyo, announced that he had found under a microscope yet another shape in the soot: tubular molecules consisting of as many as 20 cylinders of carbon inside one another. One day, these defect-free tubes might be developed as superstrong fibers in construction materials. 

Although the research is just beginning, fullerenes are unusually promising chemical building blocks because they are ''molecules that behave like an atom,'' says Katsumi Tanigaki, head of the NEC lab. If scientists insert noncarbon atoms into fullerenes or attach them, the resulting molecules have different chemical and physical characteristics. Eventually ''we can make new molecules with properties never even predicted by science,'' Tanigaki says. 

So researchers are zealously stringing atoms of everything from iodine to yttrium and lithium between fullerenes or on their surfaces as if they were popcorn on a Christmas tree. And the early results are riveting. At the University of California at Santa Barbara, Fred Wudl, a professor of chemistry, strung ammonia-like groups of molecules along the surface of a buckyball: It became magnetic. Wudl and others also squeezed atoms of potassium between buckyballs--they became superconductors. Last summer, NEC researchers slipped in atoms of cesium and rubidium. That raised the superconducting temperature of the fragile and unstable fullerenes to -400F, still far below the high-temperature superconducting materials. But if researchers insert a sodium atom in the gaps between the carbon spheres, the new fullerenes don't conduct electricity at all--they become insulators instead. 

By adding other atoms and taking advantage of fullerenes' propensity to react with other substances, scientists hope to create new medical and industrial catalysts. To do their work of controlling chemical reactions, catalysts break and reform the bonds between atoms. As it turns out, the hollow-centered buckyballs sop up electrons from neighboring atoms, while the twisting lattices of helix-shaped fullerenes give up electrons. Du Pont Co. researchers have demonstrated they can make a fullerene catalyst by hitching a methyl group of atoms to a buckyball. The buckyball snatched three electrons from the group of carbon and hydrogen atoms. Molecules that absorb electrons like this are important catalysts in the production of paints that resist fading in light and clear plastics, such as Du Pont's lucite. SERENDIPITY. Despite fascinating laboratory results, many obstacles remain before fullerenes emerge as workhorse materials, which is why some scientists and institutions aren't yet rushing to the patent office with their results. To take full advantage of the potential of fullerenes, scientists must be able to insert foreign atoms into the molecules. That will require them to open the bonds between carbon atoms and then reseal them. But they are having difficulty dissolving the tight bonds that hold carbon atoms together. So far, the standard techniques--chemical peels, laser blasts, and high temperatures that dissolve most other bonds between atoms--haven't worked. 

Scientists are also hampered because theory hasn't caught up with the rush of new laboratory discoveries. Existing theories, largely based on the behavior of smaller molecules, don't adequately explain how these curious new structures behave. 

A better understanding of the behavior of fullerenes could have profound ramifications. Knowing precisely how fullerenes become superconductors, for instance, may lead to improvements in other types of superconductors. If research on fullerenes does that, ''it will be important in itself,'' says Andrew Kaldor, director of fullerene research at Exxon Corp.'s Corporate Research Lab. 

For his part, Smalley is leading the rush to test what happens to fullerenes when bits of metal are attached to the outside, the inside, or in between. He confidently envisions a day when fullerenes will be snapped together like Lego blocks to create miniature factories cranking out catalysts. Indeed, the potential for fullerenes is so fantastic that researchers expect to have soot on their hands for years to come. 

Photograph: 'BUCKYTUBE': THE WAYS CARBON ATOMS CAN LINK HAVE CHEMISTS AGOG Illustration: THE BRAVE NEW WORLD OF FULLERENES Data: BW RAY VELLA/BW 


Document bw00000020011109dnc9001j1


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 37 *******************    



Cover Story THE RESEARCH IS FIRST CLASS. IF ONLY DEVELOPMENT WAS, TOO 

John Carey in Washington, with Peter Coy in New York PHOTOGRAPH BY SEPP SEITZ 
681 words 
16 December 1991
Business Week 
Pg. 118 
Vol. Number 3244 
English
Copyright 1991 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

For decades, IBM has prided itself on its world-class research. Big Blue spends $6 billion a year on its sprawling R&D enterprise with major laboratories in the U. S., Europe, and Japan. And the company's scientists rank among the best anywhere. In 1986, they won the Nobel prize for inventing the scanning tunneling microscope, which enables researchers to spot individual atoms. In 1987, they won another Nobel prize--for achieving high-temperature superconductivity. And in 1990, IBM scientists were the first to build structures only a single atom wide, a crucial step on the road to ultrafast chips. 

But the company's struggle to reshape itself raises troubling questions: Will IBM's celebrated R&D labs fade as did other once-great industrial labs such as RCA's Sarnoff Center and Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center? In fact, if the turmoil undermines IBM's prowess--especially in physics and semiconductor research--that could deal a serious blow to U. S. competitiveness. ''I'm very concerned,'' says Robert M. White, Under Secretary for technology at the Commerce Dept. CRACKING THE CODE. Many IBM-watchers in academia, industry, and government, however, believe that the latest corporate shakeup may be just what the doctor ordered. IBM has been aggressive in developing new technologies for its core business--such as new generations of memory chips. But critics say Big Blue has long suffered from a common American disease--it too often fails to bring breakthrough technologies to market successfully. ''They just haven't been able to crack the code of how to get worthwhile innovations out of a large company,'' says Cambridge (Mass.)-based computer communications analyst John McQuillan. 

The reorganization could bring research closer to the needs of individual operating units and prevent the champions of existing products from squashing development of threatening new technologies. ''Given IBM's history, it may be a healthy move,'' says a leading computer industry expert. 

Take reduced instruction-set computing, or RISC. In the mid-1970s, IBM researchers pioneered this revolutionary technology for designing faster computers. But the advance wasn't rushed into products, largely because it was seen as a menace to Big Blue's core mainframe business. ''Everything they do is protecting that mainframe market,'' says Alan Sims, chief engineer for Cigna Corp., a big IBM customer. 

As a result, RISC technology wasn't commercialized until scientists at Stanford University and the University of California at Berkeley, funded by the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), in effect reinvented it. Then upstarts like Sun Microsystems Inc. harnessed the technology--and they now lead in RISC-based workstations. 

Not only has fear of undercutting existing products held IBM back, but so has complacency. Berkeley computer scientist Michael A. Harrison recalls a visit by one of IBM's top software scientists, who described newly published research to programmers at an IBM development lab in California. But few of the programmers even knew which journal the scientist was referring to, says Harrison. ''To be that ignorant, it's like having been in a cave for 20 years,'' he says. 

Critics concede that even before the reorganization, IBM had been trying to tackle its R&D problems. It became the driving force in two industry research consortiums, Sematech and the Microelectronics & Computer Technology Corp. It also funded suppliers of advanced chipmaking technology. And it had begun to slash product development cycle times. 

IBM has no plans to decentralize its research laboratories. But if the growing pressures lead it to shift its R&D priorities too much to the short term, it may be unable to make the big breakthroughs. Japan is increasing its investment in basic scientific research. To compete in 21st century technologies, American computer companies such as IBM will have to speed products to market and keep their blue-sky science strong. 

Photograph: FADING GLORY? SUPERCONDUCTIVITY RESEARCH AT THE WATSON CENTER 


Document bw00000020011109dncg001l5


More Like This

 Article 38 *******************    



The Best of 1991: Scientific Innovation Super Domes 

57 words 
13 January 1992
Business Week 
Pg. 137 
Vol. Number 3247 
English
Copyright 1992 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Molecules of carbon shaped like a futuristic sphere, buckyballs are turning out to be a scientific gold mine. Researchers have discovered that the intriguing substance can act as a superconductor, a potent catalyst, or a tool for making films of diamond. Now comes the hard part--commercializing the discovery. 

Document bw00000020011107do1d00014


More Like This

 Article 39 *******************    



Developments to Watch STEEL WITH MUCH MORE MUSCLE 

EDITED BY PAMELA J. BLACK 
211 words 
20 January 1992
Business Week 
Pg. 86 
Vol. Number 3238 
English
Copyright 1992 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Carbon atoms called fullerenes that combine into such novel shapes as soccer balls and tubes have caused a sensation among scientists recently. Researchers have speculated that the unique carbon configurations could lead to materials with startlingly new properties. 

They don't have to speculate any longer. MicroMet Technology Inc. in Charlotte, N. C., has unveiled a new type of steel made with fullerenes. The material, called Rhondite, is chemically similar to conventional steel. But its structure is different: Its carbon molecules are linked in chains wrapped around iron atoms. This cable-like structure in turn wraps around a larger core of iron to form the new steel. 

Independent tests of the material have found it to be 1.5 times as strong as conventional steel with a similar chemical composition. And Rhondite is 300% more durable than leading high-performance metals. Even better, according to MicroMet President Robert C. Job, the metal can be made with existing steelmaking equipment at a cost ''that meets or beats the $300 a ton for structural steel manufactured in minimills.'' MicroMet is looking for a partner to help commercialize the technology and to finance research into modifying the material for other applications. 

Document bw00000020011107do1k00061


More Like This

 Article 40 *******************    



Technology 

Scientists Create Metal-Carbon Molecule With Novel Properties, Great Potential 

By David Stipp 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
475 words 
17 March 1992
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B6 
English
(Copyright (c) 1992, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Researchers at Pennsylvania State University said they created a new metal-carbon compound with novel properties and a number of possible commercial uses. 

The new molecule appears to have a cage-like structure similar to that of "buckyballs," soccerball-shaped molecules of carbon that have electrified researchers for the past two years as the potential basis for new polymers, superconductors, electronic devices, industrial diamonds and other technologies. 

Called a metallo-carbohedrene, or metcar, the new molecule contains eight atoms of the metal titanium and 12 atoms of carbon. Preliminary experiments indicate the atoms form a hollow, roughly spherical molecule with 12 pentagon-shaped faces. 

The molecule, the first of its kind, is likely to have a number of novel properties, including unusual magnetic and electrical ones, said A. Welford Castleman, a Pennsylvania State chemist who led the team that created the compound. Its titanium atoms are thought to supply electrons that are "delocalized" and shared by other atoms in the molecule -- such spreadout, mobile electrons can promote desired chemical reactions and conduct electricity, among other things. 

The finding should pave the way for the creation of similar ball-like molecules containing other kinds of metal atoms, potentially enabling researchers to make customized met-car compounds with desired properties. Dr. Castleman said his team already has "put a couple of other things" in such molecules besides titanium and carbon. He declined to elaborate pending publication of the results in a scientific journal. 

In a news release, the U.S. Department of Energy, which funded the Pennsylvania State team's work, said the discovery opens the door for compounds that may be useful for new electronic materials, pollution control and "possibly in modifying proteins in living organisms." The agency said met-car compounds also may someday be used as chemical "tracers" to study "biological and environmental systems." 

A report on the new molecule appeared in Friday's issue of the journal Science. 

The Pennsylvania State team said it hasn't yet firmly established that the new molecule has a cage-like structure. "But whether cage-like or not, it's likely to have special properties," said Dr. Castleman. He added that his team has made only microscopic amounts of the new molecule so far but "feels strongly" that larger quantities can be made fairly easily. 

The team hasn't yet published its recipe for making the new molecule, which may delay replication of the results by other scientists. But Ting Guo, a researcher at Rice University in Houston who is studying buckyballs, said the Pennsylvania team's "result is probably true." He added that the finding "is very exciting" and that there should be "a lot of things to do with the new category of molecules." 

Document j000000020011107do3h005r4


More Like This

 Article 41 *******************    



Science & Technology BETTER LIVING THROUGH--CATALYSTS? --- Recent advances may lead to new miracle drugs and more 

Pamela J. Black in New York 
1,368 words 
23 March 1992
Business Week 
Pg. 84 
Vol. Number 3257 
English
Copyright 1992 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

For the past 10 years, between teaching budding chemical-engineering students at California Institute of Technology, Professor Mark E. Davis has repaired to his campus lab to play with piles of sand. Davis' specialty is zeolites--grains made of silicon, aluminum, and oxygen that are used as catalysts in oil refining. Molecules of crude enter thousands of tiny holes in zeolites, where they react with an acid and break down into gasoline, heating oil, and various byproducts. Davis' goal is to create synthency of catalysts would save 22 million barrels of oil a year and cut the U. S. trade deficit by more than $400 million. 

The prospect of this and other payoffs has lit a burner under chemistry labs around the country. For decades, new catalysts have been developed mainly by trial and error. Scientists knew that they worked without understanding how. But recent advances in lab equipment, such as the scanning-tunneling microscope, have provided the first glimpse of how individual atoms are arranged on the surfaces of catalytic materials. 

This knowledge is turning what has long been an art into a science aimed at designing catalysts for specific jobs. Among the many advances this could eventually lead to are miraculous new medicines, ''nanoscale'' computer circuits, and more efficient solar-power devices. And instead of just cleaning up pollution, ''designer catalysts'' might avoid it in the first place. ''We can now design catalysts to make only a product--without polluting byproducts,'' says James A. Cusumano, president of Catalytica Inc., a catalyst maker in Mountain View, Calif. GOLDEN AGE? Catalysts are the marriage brokers of chemistry: They help form new chemical bonds in other materials to make a desired product, then emerge unchanged and ready to start over again. Products made this way already represent about a quarter of America's gross national product. Industrial catalysts turn chemicals into everything from plastics to paint to drugs. And bio-logical catalysts, called enzymes, help make food, drink, and detergents. Now, the latest advances indicate that the heyday of catalysts may lie just ahead.Zeolites are a case in point. Nature's brand is dug from rock quarries. But chemists such as Davis are crystallizing new varieties from different materials. For instance, one way to get the bigger holes for processing heavier oil is to substitute phosphorous for silicon in a zeolite's structure. For the moment, such molecular sieves, as they're called, can't withstand the pressure and heat of refining. So Davis is trying to make larger-pored sieves from sturdier silicon. He and others are also designing zeolite membranes that would streamline the refining process by separating oil products in one step. Currently, energy-intensive distillation columns vaporize oil and cool the resulting gases to separate various products. 

Zeolites can do many other jobs, too. They're replacing polluting phosphates as water softeners in laundry detergents, where they act as minuscule sponges to soak up minerals that make water hard. Meanwhile, some scientists hope to turn sieves into tiny electronic and optical devices. One goal is making chemical sensors that would trigger an alarm when molecules of a particular gas or pollutant entered their pores. Another use, says Geoffrey Ozin, a chemist at the University of Toronto, might be to house tiny semiconductor transistors, or switches, that have superior electronic and optical properties compared with today's semiconductors. HIT LIST. But for all their diversity, zeolites can't match the exquisite precision of enzymes. These biological catalysts influence all chemical reactions in the body--and some outside it. The ability of enzymes to break down carbohydrates and process sugars, for example, helps in making food, beverages, and stain-eating detergents. And now, enzymes are finding some more exotic uses. 

Celgene Inc., a biotech company in Warren, N. J., has built a library of 7,000 microbes, or microorganisms that contain enzymes. Among these is a bacteria that attacks methylene chloride, a carcinogen on the Environmental Protection Agency's most-wanted list. Placed in a bioreactor in a factory waste stream--at one General Electric Co. plant so far--the microbes convert the toxin into carbon dioxide, water, and salts. Celgene is also using enzymes to purify drugs. The key molecules in many drugs occur in two slightly varying forms, each of which may have hugely different effects. The birth defects caused by thalidomide, normally a sedative, may result from one of these variants. Eliminating the undesirable form is usually difficult and costly. But Celgene has found enzymes that can do the job quickly and cheaply. Celgene says the market for purifying drugs this way may exceed $3 billion within a decade. 

An even more dramatic development is the engineered abzyme, or catalytic antibody. This technology gives antibodies--disease-fighting proteins--the ability to enhance chemical reactions the way enzymes do. Since antibodies can be tailored to latch on to almost any molecule, abzymes could enable scientists to change almost any chemical reaction in the body. ''Once you can custom-tailor enzymes,'' says Peter G. Schultz, a chemist at the University of California at Berkeley, ''you have many more opportunities to cure illness.'' Some 50 abzymes have been developed so far, including one that may fight skin cancer by repairing DNA damage caused by ultraviolet light from the sun. 

Meanwhile, scientists are using light and sound as catalysts. In photosynthesis, sunlight acts as a catalyst to spur chlorophyll-containing cells to make food for plants. Now, researchers at Arizona State University and Argonne National Labs, to name two, are close to capturing the energy generated by this molecular activity. Says Devens Gust, a professor at Arizona State: ''What we have is a solar battery that, in principle, you could use to drive anything you want.'' 

In another form of photocatalysis, scientists from the National Renewable Energy Lab in Golden, Colo., and from Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, are purifying groundwater contaminated by the solvent trichloroethylene, which is used in cleaning machinery. The water is run through tubes containing titanium dioxide crystals. Sunlight reacts with the crystals to degrade the contaminants into harmless products. Project Leader Hal Link at the National Renewable Energy Lab points out that existing methods of cleaning groundwater merely transfer toxins onto filters or into the air. 

Scientists are even looking to high-frequency sound waves, or ultrasound, to spur catalytic reactions. When such sound is radiated through liquids, it causes gas pockets to expand and collapse within fractions of a second. This creates tiny spots as hot as the surface of the sun--9,600F--plus pressures equal to those on the sea floor. These conditions might make catalysts work better in many production processes. Indeed, chemist Kenneth S. Suslick at the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana has used ultrasound to make a purer form of ''amorphous'' iron. Amorphous metals are used in magnetic recording heads and as a corrosion-resistant coating. 

From oil to ultrasound, catalysts have come a long way. And as chemists learn more about how catalysts work and edge closer to designing them from scratch, they'll be building a lot more than castles in the sand. 

Photograph: DAVIS: DEVELOPING A STURDY ''MOLECULAR SIEVE'' THAT WOULD REFINE CRUDER GRADES OF OIL ALAN LEVENSON Illustration: WHAT'S NEW IN CATALYST RESEARCH MOLECULAR SIEVES Scientists are working to make more efficient versions of zeolites and other tiny crystalline cages. These industrial catalysts are the key to developing better processes for refining oil and making chemicals and plastics SONOCATALYSIS Because high-frequency ultrasound generates intense heat and pressures when radiated into liquids, it could be used as a controlled, low-tech catalyst for processes such as making purer specialty metals PHOTOCATALYSIS Research into how light acts as a catalyst and works on other catalysts is leading to new ways to purify contaminated groundwater. Understanding artificial photosynthesis could also yield more efficient solar energy devices ENZYMES Increasingly, these natural and engineered proteins are used to ''eat'' pollution and purify pharmaceuticals. Hybrid versions of them, called catalytic antibodies, could lead to new medicines such as cancer drugs DATA: BW 


Document bw00000020011107do3n0010n


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 42 *******************    



Changing a Culture: Du Pont Tries to Make Its Research Wizardry Serve the Bottom Line --- Back-to-Basics Drive Stresses Manufacturing Efficiency And Faster Turnarounds --- Risks in Pursuing `Big Bangs' 

By Scott McMurray 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
2,231 words 
27 March 1992
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE A1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1992, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

WILMINGTON, Del. -- From the creation of nylon during the Depression to the latest studies of exotic carbon molecules, Du Pont Co. has long been at the forefront of basic corporate research. It led the nation's chemical companies last year in U.S. patents applied for and granted. 

But good science hasn't always been good for Du Pont shareholders. Despite spending of more than $13 billion on chemical and related research over the past 10 years, Du Pont's 5,000 scientists and engineers were a technological black hole: They sucked in money but, company officials concede, didn't turn out a single all-new blockbuster product or even many major innovations. And only about 5% of Du Pont's own managers surveyed recently rate the company among the best U.S. or Japanese corporations in introducing new products. 

"They've been like the space program: The technology is great, but where's the payoff?" says John Garcia, an industry analyst at Wertheim Schroder & Co. 

But now Du Pont, one of the nation's most prolific inventors, is trying to reinvent itself. It is striving to create a new culture driven by profits, not just research prowess. It is betting that radical improvements in the way it develops new products, as well as the way it makes nylon and other mainstays, can yield huge savings. At the same time, it is trying to restructure a bloated bureaucracy. 

Du Pont needs a top-to-bottom overhaul, says Edgar S. Woolard Jr., its chief executive officer since 1989. He ticks off its shortcomings: The company takes too long to "convert research into products that can benefit our customers," he says. In major established products, it has lost ground to rivals that spend more on improving manufacturing (it was forced out of the Orlon fiber business for that reason). And years of paternalistic employment practices have made Du Pont a secure place to work, but "we have too much bureaucracy running these businesses," Mr. Woolard complains. 

The deceptively soft-spoken, 58-year-old North Carolina native is forcing change on a corporate culture widely considered about as agile as one of the company's lumbering Conoco supertankers. Du Ponters were shocked out of their complacency last summer when Mr. Woolard announced a plan to slash annual costs by $1 billion within two years. The company also aims to increase pretax profit by another $2 billion within five years, mainly by improving its manufacturing efficiency and reducing its plants' turnaround time between processing runs. 

Wilmington is still shaking from the initial jolt: 5,500 Du Pont employees here have already taken early retirement, and more cutbacks are expected. Du Pont has about 20,000 employees in the area and 133,000 world-wide. 

Perhaps shielded by his Southern-gentleman manners, Mr. Woolard hasn't been blamed for Du Pont's problems, even though he has been part of top management since being named an executive vice president in 1983. Wall Street applauds the steps he is taking, but some complain that he is taking too long. 

Mr. Woolard says he is moving as fast as he can. He says he wants to avoid short-term moves, such as being too quick to sell or close weak operations, that might someday damage the company. 

If anything can scorch Mr. Woolard's Teflon coating, it may be the recession's effect on Du Pont's earnings. Last year, net income dropped nearly 40% to $1.4 billion. That plunge partly reflected lower oil revenues at Du Pont's Conoco unit as oil prices dropped after Operation Desert Storm ended quickly. Sales last year slipped 3% to $38.7 billion. Over the past 12 months, Du Pont's stock has traded between the mid-30s and 50 1/2; it closed yesterday at $47.25, up 25 cents in New York Stock Exchange trading. 

But even after the recovery kicks in, the heat isn't going to be off Du Pont or many other U.S. corporate giants. Companies ranging from Du Pont to International Business Machines Corp. and American Telephone & Telegraph Co. are being forced by mounting competition to deliver both new and existing products faster and more efficiently. And a history of dominating an industry doesn't provide much of a competitive edge. In fact, it can be a hindrance if, as at Du Pont, it spawned a somewhat sluggish and backward-looking culture. 

Du Pont isn't used to such pressure. After diversifying away from its gunpowder and munitions businesses after World War I, it became, for decades, one of America's most innovative companies. It introduced synthetic fibers and rubber, new plastics and polymers. After World War II, with European and Japanese rivals leveled, Du Pont and other U.S. chemical makers reigned supreme in many areas for another 20 years. 

But, obsessed with finding the next big breakthrough, many Du Pont scientists slighted minor advances, customer needs -- and profitability. Joseph Miller, director of polymers research, notes "a mind-set that research's responsibility was to find another nylon." And the pursuit of what he calls "Big Bangs" led to some spectacular new-product busts. Among them: 

Kevlar, pound for pound stronger than steel, was the Superman of synthetic fibers when introduced in 1972. But it began to resemble Clark Kent when tire makers instead went for cheaper steelbelted radials. After nearly 20 years and $600 million of development and marketing costs, Kevlar recently turned a profit, having found niche markets such as bulletproof vests and Army helmets. 

Synthetic silk is a product Du Pont would like to forget. Qiana, as it was known, cost about $200 million to develop and market. After a brief fling with high-fashion designers in the late 1960s and early 1970s, it was abandoned for natural fibers and died barely a decade later. 

Electronic-imaging businesses have cost Du Pont more than $600 million since the mid-1980s. The technological potential of things such as digital printing may seem dazzling, but all Du Pont has got out of it so far is a river of red ink. 

And pharmaceuticals, Du Pont officials admit after 10 years and $1 billion, take longer and cost more to bring to market than they anticipated. In 1990, Merck & Co. was brought in as a partner in a joint venture to add marketing muscle. 

With new-product development faltering, Du Pont has relied on "tweaking" existing products into slightly improved versions. Its Lycra spandex fiber, which was introduced more than 30 years ago to replace rubber in girdles, has expanded via modifications to dominate the active-wear market. And low-dose herbicides, invented in the mid-1970s, are selling well. 

To focus "more intensity on customer needs," Mr. Woolard says Du Pont has shifted about 30% of its research budget, or more than $400 million a year, toward speeding new products to customers. 

In the past, customers wanting to make changes in high-strength Zytel nylon-resin products used to have to wait as long as six months to get an answer out of Du Pont, says John Jack, Zytel global product manager. By that time, the customer, often an auto maker or one of its suppliers, may have taken the business elsewhere. 

In response, Du Pont salespeople created an informal "skunkworks" with the aid of frustrated in-house researchers to go outside channels and push their pet projects. But those projects often didn't produce much profit, Mr. Jack says, and they may not have even been in the customer's best long-term interests. 

A skunkworks antidote is being tried by several Du Pont departments and is supposed to be adopted throughout the company. To speed the new-product process, the departments have created small, interdisciplinary teams to field all new-product ideas. These teams, including research, manufacturing and sales representatives, get just two weeks to make a decision. If they decide to go ahead with the idea, they have two more weeks to form another team to carry it out. The elapsed time for a new, still-secret auto-safety product, from the idea to a prototype product, was just two months, Mr. Jack says. 

Du Pont is also working more closely with customers. Fluorware Inc., a supplier to the semiconductor industry, wanted Du Pont to make a purer version of a Teflon basket that Fluorware uses to hold silicon wafers during production. The companies formed a joint team to find a solution, even though Fluorware's annual sales total only about $60 million. Last year, Du Pont brought out a commercial version of the product for sale to other companies. The Fluorware-Du Pont team now holds regular meetings, "which we hope will lead to breakthroughs in materials science," says John Goodman, the Minnesota company's senior director for corporate technology. 

Another problem at Du Pont: bugs. Some divisions spend about three times as much money and effort on debugging new products -- ironing out problems after the product is launched -- than the top newproduct development companies in the U.S. That can send costs through the roof. Substantially cutting debugging time companywide could lift profit by more than $200 million a year, officials estimate. 

"We need to shift the emphasis from investment in product development to improving our understanding of the processes used to manufacture our products," says Uma Chowdhry, an efficiency expert in Du Pont's microcircuits and component-materials business. 

Some scientists studying nylon in the lab are doing just that. It might seem that Du Pont couldn't learn much more about nylon after making it for more than 50 years. Yet in recent months the scientists have, for the first time, devised a way to break down nylon into its raw materials without creating waste by-products. 

"This is one of our high-risk, big-impact activities," says James Meyer, the project leader. The company could eventually recycle nylon and save tens of millions of dollars in raw materials if the process works on a commercial scale. It also would eliminate the cost of handling the waste byproduct -- and perhaps a big environmental headache. 

The potential profits from improving manufacturing at Du Pont's more than 100 plants world-wide are huge. Reducing the down time between the dozens of processes at polymer plants is expected to raise profits by as much as $200 million a year within a few years, says Mr. Miller, the head of polymers research. With so much money at stake, it's no surprise that the polymers division now spends 60% of its research budget on improving its processing and only 40% on products. A few years ago, 70% of the budget went to products and only 30% to processing. 

One of Du Pont's most efficient plants sits along the Delaware River not far from company headquarters in downtown Wilmington. Fixed costs to produce titanium dioxide, an opaque pigment used in paper and paint, have been flat since 1989 while productivity has jumped sharply, says Jack Kane, the plant manager. The efficiency gains came from shutting down one production line and reducing down time between processing runs on the remaining line. The plant is running 22 hours a day, up from 18 hours just a few years ago. 

Mr. Kane says many of the plant's productivity gains came from involving workers in the process. When he started working at the plant in 1956, he says, a supervisor answered one of his questions by saying, "You don't need to know that." Mr. Kane says that to get workers to think for themselves and identify with the company's goals, he "gives cost figures on any of our operations down to the newest guy on a maintenance team." 

In a program started last year, plant management has paid about $18,000 to workers for actions that ended up saving Du Pont a multiple of that amount, says Cindy Coker, the assistant plant manager. Walt Zerbe, an employee, got a bonus of more than $1,000, for example; he rejected a contractor's bid to paint the plant's buildings and equipment, and the contractor came back a few days later with a bid 20% lower. "That wouldn't have happened even two years ago," Ms. Coker says. 

Meanwhile, Mr. Woolard's back-to-basics sermon has led to inevitable strains between applied research directed at processing and fundamental research. Research managers say they think a lot harder before approving projects without an obvious payoff. 

"The trickiest thing is to strike that balance between `buckyballs' (a new form of pure carbon) and process technology," says Richard Quisenberry, head of central research. Buckyballs are being studied by a highly respected group of nearly 20 Du Pont scientists even though practical applications are probably years off. 

Senior management's commitment to fundamental research remains strong, Mr. Quisenberry insists, despite all the talk about profits. He adds: "I still get notes back from people written across the top of research proposals that say, `This looks pretty applied. Are you sure we're taking care of our long-term interests?'" 

Document j000000020011107do3r006vk


More Like This

 Article 43 *******************    



Developments to Watch NOW, BUCKYBALLS MAY BE USED TO FILTER AND TRAP GASES 

EDITED BY FLEUR TEMPLETON 
186 words 
11 May 1992
Business Week 
Pg. 101 
Vol. Number 3265 
English
Copyright 1992 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Buckyballs continue to tantalize scientists. The sphere-shaped molecules of carbon, so named because their structure resembles Buckminster Fuller's geodesic domes, already have been shown to act as superconductors, catalysts, and templates for making diamond films. Now, there's a new set of potential uses: purifying and storing gases. 

It all began when chemist Roger A. Assink and colleagues at Sandia National Laboratories were analyzing a sample of buckyballs. Unexpectedly, they found the material contained gases such as nitrogen. Analysis revealed that small gas molecules slip in and out of the spaces between buckyballs. 

The discovery suggests two potential uses: Clumps of buckyballs could store gases such as oxygen. And a thin layer of buckyballs could remove nitrogen and other contaminants from natural gas, a key purification process that normally takes several steps. Nitrogen and oxygen would pass through the layer, leaving behind the larger molecules of pure methane, which are too big to slip into gaps. The Sandia team is now working to make such buckyball filters. 

Document bw00000020011107do5b001fz


More Like This

 Article 44 *******************    



"I GOT TIRED OF FORCING MYSELF TO GO INTO THE OFFICE." (BOOM IN SMALL BUSINESS START-UPS) 

By Tatiana Pouschine and Manjeet Kripalani 
3,234 words 
25 May 1992
Forbes 
104 
English
Copyright Forbes Inc. 1992 

Why are the media so gloomy about the economy? In large part because they cover only part of the business story. Here's the other part, the largely ignored sector that will soon be employing 70% of U.S. workers. 

Those who deplore the state of the U.S. economy and agonize over the supposed decline of American enterprise must have their eyes closed. All over America the dreams of entrepreneurs are turning into action and fruition. In the gloom of the recession, there's been a bloom of the entrepreneurial spirit. 

In Boston, James Koch gave up consulting to start a beer company. In Minneapolis, Anil Jain left Honeywell to start an optoelectronics firm. In Madison, Miss., Gary Slade started a gas pipeline business, running his new company out of a bedroom. 

You can quantify GM layoffs and IBM's loss of market share--so people talk about those numbers. Quantifying the entrepreneurial boom is more difficult. But consider these statistics: From 1950 through 1975 the number of new incorporations--a proxy for new business formation--merely tracked the growth of the U.S. economy. Suddenly, after 1975, the entrepreneurial pace picked up and began outrunning a rather sluggish GNP. Last year, despite the recession, 630,000 companies incorporated, twice the rate of incorporations in 1975 (see chart, p. 107). 

Some of these new ventures will, of course, fail. According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, one in every five ventures fails within two years. Most of the rest will survive but grow only modestly. About 5% will take off, and a tinier proportion will rise into the corporate big time. But lose, win small or win big, all of them will create jobs and goods and services. And all of them will give their creators a stab at realizing the American can dream of being their own boss. 

Why the big increase in the 1980s? In good part the bumper crop of new businesses was nurtured by the tax cuts and resulting prosperity created by the Reagan Administration. The entrepreneurial movement was strengthened, too, by a growing disillusionment about the joys and prospects of careers in big corporations, where the constant pruning of the management ranks dampened the prospects of hundreds of thousands of young executives. 

Economic growth in the larger economy diminished prospects in the Forbes 500s companies. These twin trends encouraged tens of thousands of Americans to go out on their own. Listen to Bal Jindal, 50, a materials science engineer who left Magnavox to start Xacton Corp. He says: "Hey, if I'm not secure anyway, what the heck. Let me just do what I want." 

Jindal decided to take the plunge in 1987--an inauspicious year. Using all the credit he had accumulated on his credit cards and some funding from the Department of Defense, he started a business developing the new generation of infrared detectors. 

Lowell Hawkinson decided not to wait around for his employer to go under. In the fall of 1986 Lisp Machine Inc.'s artificial intelligence division was doing well, but its main business, specialized computers, was in deep trouble. Hawkinson could have sat around and hoped for the best. Or he could have taken his fate into his own hands. He chose the latter. He and five colleagues pooled their savings, about $50,000, and approached investor Edward Fredkin, who put up $300,000. Three weeks later the six had their own company, Gensym, which specializes in expert-systems-based technology, used in industrial applications such as quality-control. 

Gensym turned a profit in less than two years. Lisp ceased to exist in 1987. 

Over the last 15 years companies, under the competitive gun, have kept demanding productivity gains and greater resourcefulness from their managers. This trained a whole generation to think like owners. 

Last year, for example, one-third of the employees of Wang Laboratories' pen-based new products division--eight people--left and started a company in Boston to exploit a product the group had pioneered at Wang. Wang, in deep financial trouble, had decided not to launch the product, a transparent digital screen that transforms a notebook computer into a pen-based system. So the breakaway group licensed the technology and incorporated as Arthur Dent Associates, Inc. 

With just $25,000 in capital, used equipment bought cheaply from Wang and the promise of an engineering contract from Scriptel, Wang's former supplier, they are now ready to go to market. "After years of frustration {at Wang}, we decided to put our money in," says Patricia Martin, an engineer and one of the owners. 

Marshall Levin left the world of secure paychecks in 1990 after long years in business and product development with TRW, American Express and Merrill Lynch. He had helped American Express launch its airport automated teller systems and developed Visa's gold card at Merrill Lynch. But a corner office and a plump paycheck did not satisfy Levin, who says, "There was no way I could build equity developing ideas for other people." 

At the end of 1987 he hit upon the idea that would cut him loose: Eliminate medical claims processing via credit cards. Give the card to your doctor and, then, zap! The right people get debited and credited instantaneously. Paperwork is eliminated. 

A simple concept but complex of execution. For the idea to take off, says Levin, "we have to be in an everybody-wins situation--the patient, the doctor, insurance companies and corporations." 

Levin quit his job at Merrill Lynch and then spent months reading up in libraries. With a partner, Levin spent $20,000 on research before deciding to go ahead. Today their company, Med Power, is developing a prototype system which will be tried out in Minneapolis. So far Levin has raised $2 million and is closing on $10 million more, all from private sources. 

Connie Cox, a Harvard M.B.A., left a promising corporate career to start the Stressless Step, a $ 1.3 million establishment off Manhattan's Park Avenue where well-heeled customers go for a massage. She spent ten years moving from Wertheim Schroder, the New York investment bank, to Citibank to General Foods. But the idea of becoming her own boss burned within her. In 1979, still working for General Foods, she spent her evenings developing ideas for market research. She resigned from General Foods the day after she signed up Heublein as her first client. Seven years later Cox was bored. "I got to where I'd walk into work and I'd be saying, ~So what market am I looking at today?'" Although independent, she was still essentially working for other people. 

While running her own business, Cox would relieve tension by going for a massage. She began to think this would be a promising business. She did some research, and her father, a businessman, lent her $350,000. 

Her early experience was typical of the kind of startup problems that soon separate the true entrepreneurs from the mere wannabes. Cox had trouble finding a landlord willing to house a "massage parlor." When she had convinced a landlord that she was running a straight business, she had to deal with the difficulty of finding good masseurs; only three out of the five she hoped to hire were interested. 

Still, the customers didn't come. At moments, Cox hated her business. The turning point came when she met a man who had experience promoting health clubs; for eight hours he sat with her showing her how to stretch promotion dollars. For instance, he suggested that she give away beach towels to customers who provided referrals. Soon the business was rolling. Cox now averages 530 appointments a week, at $50 each. 

Cheaper and cheaper computing power and lowered telecommunications costs are making life a bit easier for many would-be entrepreneurs. Even leading-edge technology can be developed on a shoestring these days. MIT's Edward Roberts, who studied 800 high-tech companies, discovered that most started out with a capital base of under $50,000. 

With little more than a personal computer and some software, hundreds of people have started businesses. According to Link Resources, a research firm in New York, the last two years alone have seen the number of homeworker households increase by 12%, to 31 million, one-third of all U.S. households. 

"People used to be ashamed of working at home," says Michael Espindle, editor of Home-Office Computing, a three-year-old publication with 350,000 subscribers. 

No more. The electronic age permits increasing self-reliance. Gary Slade, 34, runs a natural gas pipeline company out of his spare bedroom in Madison, Miss. Starting out as an oil driller, and then a bond salesman, Slade says he got fed up "wearing a coat and tie and driving around the block eight or nine times before forcing myself to go into the office." 

In 1990, braving a falling natural gas market, he bought a 35-mile gas pipeline facility, Arlington Gas Co., for over $1 million, using his drilling and bond selling experience to raise equity through a limited partnership. 

His next step was to invest $6,500 in a personal computer, printer, fax machine, portable telephone plus a cable Tv hookup for business news. 

Slade watches spot market prices on Tv and buys and sells natural gas on the phone. He charges a fee to others to transport their gas in his pipeline. Slade's company, Arlington Gas Pipeline L.P., had revenues last year, one year after startup, of $1.3 million. "My biggest cost is my phone bill and my own health insurance," he says. "Without today's technology, I couldn't function as I do." 

We heard this again and again: High technology liberated me from salaried drudgery. 

And high technology opened new business opportunities. Anil Jain was researching new applications for optoelectronics at night and on weekends while employed at Honeywell as optical engineer. That was in 1979. His research--which seeks to develop optoelectronic products for fiber-optics communications and other applications--moved so fast that he left Honeywell to work at his company, APA Optics Inc., full time in 1983. Early support came in the form of research contracts from the Strategic Defense Initiative program. Then Jain raised over $4 million in a public offering. The capital plus all of the company's profits are invested in a dozen state-of-the-art labs in the Blaine, Minn. facility. 

Duncan Brown, who has a doctorate in organic chemistry from Caltech and has done postdoctoral work at MIT and Harvard, joined American Cyanamid in 1983. His job: technical leader in the newly created electronic chemicals group. 

It wasn't long before Brown, now 39, saw promise in some technology Cyanamid wasn't interested in developing. In the spring of 1986 he and four partners remortgaged their houses and leased a garage. Their firm, Advanced Technology Materials, Inc., would work on enhancing silicon materials and processes, while developing a new low-cost, high-performance diamond coating for electronics. Since 1987 it has raised roughly $10 million from venture capital firms. 

Five years ago Bernard Kear and his associate Larry McCandlish were fired from Exxon's research and development division because some higher-ups had refocused the company's research directions. Kear had done pioneering research on producing new materials via nanostructure technology, which breaks the materials down to superfine levels. This method improves a hundredfold traditional coating composites used for cutting tools and drilling equipment. 

Kear moved to Rutgers University, where he fine-tuned the technology. In 1990 Kear and McCandlish formed Nanodyne Inc. with the help of a grant from the New Jersey Commission on Science & Technology and a partnership with a local engineering company. Nanodyne is set to compete with Sandvik and Hitachi in the $1 billion cutting tools material market worldwide. While Kear put in no cash, his expertise gives him an equity stake in the company. 

The very corporate cutbacks that have made entrepreneurial pursuits more attractive to the younger generation have also provided opportunities. To cut costs, big companies often farm out functions formerly done inhouse. Sometimes they provide financial support as well as business. Sunil Munshani, 30, left Digital Equipment in 1988, anticipating that the company might abandon its artificial intelligence business. Digital did pull out, but some of its clients still wanted work done. Digital "outsourced" to Munshani's firm, Trirex Systems, Inc., and even helped Munshani land his first job with Pitney Bowes, a $100,000 contract. Since then AT&T, Nestle and Salomon Brothers have become clients. 

Such outsourcing arrangements vastly reduce the cost of creating a new product for big companies and, in the process, create opportunities for entrepreneurs. Julia Knight, an ex-Estee Lauder, ex-Revlon, ex-Lamaur and ex-Minnetonka executive, started Minneapolis-based Growing Healthy, a maker and seller of frozen baby food. To develop the products, Knight used three different food technology firms run by fellow entrepreneurs. Now she pays a fee to a food manufacturing company to make the products. Thus, she plans to compete in a big business with a minimal investment ($6 million) and a minimal salaried staff. 

James Koch, 42, of the Boston Beer Co., also figured out how to compete against big business using minimal capital. Koch is the sixth generation in the beer business--his father was a brewmaster. He started out with $240,000: $100,000 of his savings and the rest from his friends and former clients. In return for some stock in his fledgling beer venture, Koch persuaded a brewing consultant to help him adapt an old family recipe. He felt serious beer drinkers would welcome a beer that tasted fresher than imports and was more interesting than domestic brands. Koch perfected the brew in his kitchen, then negotiated with the Pittsburgh Brewing Co. to use its facilities to produce Samuel Adams beer. 

Koch started selling directly to bartenders in Boston, and the beer took off. By 1988 he was selling 64,000 barrels of his premium-priced beer. Time to build a big brewery? Koch spent $2.1 million, then decided against it. "I would have had to raise the price of my beer to pay off the debt," he concluded. 

Increasingly, lack of capital is less of a barrier to entrepreneurship than it once was. Roughly 80% of the high-tech businesses MIT's Roberts tracked were self-financed. With few exceptions, the first round of funding for the entrepreneurs with whom we spoke came from personal savings, second mortgages, friends, family and wealthy individuals. 

In a sense there is more money around these days than there are ideas worth investing in. When the idea makes sense and the proposer of the idea has credentials, money is rarely a problem. Eugene Davis, an ex-Chase Manhattan banker, recently raised $10 million in six months from friends. He plans to invest money in small and medium-size enterprises in Southeast Asia, including a paper products company in Thailand. Davis provides money where the local banks won't, as well as financial expertise. 

There are even entrepreneurs these days who make a nice living serving other entrepreneurs. Robert Calcaterra, founder of the Boulder Technology Incubator in Boulder, Colo. and former research and development director at Adolph Coors Co., acts as an in-house management consultant in return for small equity stakes. Incubators appeared when recession hit the Rust Belt in the late 1970s. There are now 450 of them in the country; more are opening every week. 

For all the help they're getting from current circumstances, entrepreneurs don't have it easy. You can't count on a paycheck every week or every month. And the person who funds your expense account is you. Stephen Martin, who joined the founders of Clean Green Packing, makers of a type of packaging peanut that dissolves in water, was accustomed to traveling in style as an executive with Pillsbury and treasurer of Tonka Corp. Instead of relaxing at Hilton hotels, he now stays at hotels like the Jolly Roger. Recently attending a trade show in California, he arrived exhausted from a red-eye flight--economy class--only to discover the next morning that the ceiling leaked in his cheap hotel. The suit he had carefully laid out on the bed the night before was soaked. 

It's trite to talk about the hours entrepreneurs work. But it's true. In reporting the story, we tested the 

legend Almost all were easy to reach 

at their offices long after 7 p.m. Levin of Med Power sighs and admits to gaining 20 pounds from worry since he started in 1990. He jokes about having to wear a button with "Daddy" on it so his children know what to call him when he finally goes home. 

Even for those to whom success comes fast, the responsibility of being an owner shows: Divorce rates among entrepreneurs are high, and many of the people we spoke to look much older than they are. 

Two exceptions may be Mindy Goldberg and Paula Harwood of Epoch 

more in 1963, at 19, to join the then fledgling Digital Equipment Corp. Burkhardt later left to help start Data General, then left that to start Encore Computer. In February 1986 he put up $ 1.5 million of his own money and launched Kendall Square Research, to compete with supercomputing giants like Cray Research. We asked Burkhardt because his almost obsessional entrepreneurship sets him apart even among this special breed. "You must have a well-thought-through product that will provide benefits," he said in response to our question. "Everything else will come. But you can't sell a $100 bill for $50." 

Burkhardt's words may sound like a cliche. But an entrepreneur knows exactly what he means. 

However cynical many Americans may have become about the American dream, the fact is that the U.S. continues to attract people from around the world who want to make it on their own. Indian-born entrepreneurs Jindal, Munshani and Jain typify the entrepreneurial spirit that, thwarted in its caste-and-class-ridden homeland, blossoms in the receptive American environment. Frank Cannon, 48, a molecular geneticist, left a secure, tenured position at the University of Sussex in England to pursue gene technology in Cambridge, Mass. He started his own company to produce pharmaceutical proteins. Why America? "There is more excitement about entrepreneurship in the U.S. than anywhere," he responds. 

And the figures bear him out. According to the latest census numbers, small businesses already employ over 50% of the work force. The Bureau of Labor estimates that by the year 2000 small companies (by definition, companies with fewer than 500 employees) will employ over 70% of the work force. In 1990, while large corporations reduced employment by 1.1%, small businesses increased employment by 1.4%. 

You can't understand what is happening in the U.S. economy just by reading about layoffs at General Motors or strikes at Caterpillar. The real economic news these days, largely uncovered by the media, is being made in thousands of home offices, small office parks and garage factories around the country. 

ILLUSTRATION: photograph 


Document fb00000020011107do5p000n7


More Like This

 Article 45 *******************    



Next Year, Some Clever Network May Show This on Pay-Per-View 

By Kevin E. Cullinane 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
414 words 
21 July 1992
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1992, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

PITTSBURGH -- The Dream Team they're not. But then, tell Michael Jordan to dribble a 60 carbon fullerene molecule. 

As U.S. athletes prepared for Barcelona, four young U.S. Olympians of another sort spent last week rubbing beakers with the world's mightiest young scientists to unlock titration and combustion secrets. The results of the 24th International Chemistry Olympiad will be announced today. 

The four U.S. high school students were among the 136 Olympians, from 34 countries including Latvia, Lithuania, Cyprus and Cuba, who last week underwent five hours of laboratory experiments and another five hours of written exams, translated into 20 languages. It was heady stuff: Try determining the rate at which atmospheric ozone is depleted when exposed to ultraviolet light from the sun, without human influence. 

On Friday, the contest switched from mental gymnastics to speed, agility and stamina. The contestants formed five-member international teams and, using hand signals to overcome language barriers, assembled 500 hexagonal unit cells (model atoms) into a huge representation of a diamond crystal. Then they had to kick a 60 carbon fullerene molecule, otherwise known as a soccer ball, through an obstacle course. 

The U.S. team is eager to knock off the chemistry team from China, which has dominated the games over the past three years. U.S. member Jeffrey Chuang of Houston says of the Chinese team, "They win it every year, but I think we've got a shot." 

Members of the U.S. team were the survivors from an initial 10,000 students whose names stood out in chemistry tests or science fairs and were put forward by teachers who had read about the contest in such magazines as Science Teacher and Chemmunity. From that large group, 750 students took a test, and 20 were picked for a two-week chemistry boot camp at the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo. Only four made the grade. 

"It was pretty tough," says one team member. Reveille at 5:45 a.m. was followed by daylong lectures and all-nighters, with students studying wherever they could find a light, including hallways and bathroom stalls. For fun, they tried to analyze the boot camp brain food. Says team member Christopher Herzog of Highland Park, N.J., "One day's ham became the next day's mystery meat." 

Document j000000020011107do7l00hti


More Like This

 Article 46 *******************    



Science & Technology LIGHTING A FIRE AT 'CAMP DNA' --- Leroy Hood's biotech lab is off and running. A startup may be next 

Dori Jones Yang in Seattle 
1,590 words 
16 November 1992
Business Week 
Pg. 73 
Vol. Number 3293 
English
Copyright 1992 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

When 150 attorneys and staffers from a Seattle law firm arrived at a local club to hear a luncheon speech in October, they were clearly out of their depth. Most hadn't gone beyond high school biology, and here they were, about to be addressed by a leading expert on molecular biotechnology. Yet when Leroy Hood finished, the crowd was bubbling over with enthusiasm for the potential of human genetics research. "He communicates his own excitement," says William H. Gates Jr., a partner at Preston, Thorgrimson, Shidler, Gates & Ellis. 

Gates should know. Last year his son, William H. Gates III, co-founder and ceo of software star Microsoft Corp., gave the University of Washington $12 million to recruit Hood and endow a new department of molecular biotechnology. Its goal: create faster, more sophisticated technology to decipher the volumes of information held in human genes and to apply that knowledge to solve problems in biology and medicine. "Computation," says Hood, "is the future of biology." two-fisted experts. Hood, 54, has a golden chance to prove it. Gates, an avid biotech investor, knew Hood's work even before a uw official approached him in late 1990 about providing an endowment to recruit the scientist. Then at the California Institute of Technology, Hood was itching for a chance to create his own department and direct interdisciplinary research. Gates's donation clinched the deal, and last October, uw announced the lab. It opened this September, with an annual budget of $5.5 million in federal research grants and a staff of 43, some 24 from Caltech alone. 

"Camp DNA," as Hood's staff calls it, will train PhDs in molecular biology to be proficient in computer science, engineering, math, or applied physics. "We want to train biologists who will develop new tools and ways to apply them," says Hood, who believes that only dual experts can design the ever-faster machines needed to decipher DNA. Beyond that, some $2 million of Gates's grant will fund young scientists' projects that are too early-stage or risky to win government backing. 

Hood sees more than money in a tie-in with Gates. Until recently, biologists versed in computers have developed most of the software for gene sequencing, the process for deciphering genes. But the escalating complexity of genetic research requires higher-skilled programmers. "People like me should no longer be doing this," says Tim Hunkapiller, a biologist who is Hood's chief computing expert. Hood wants to explore ways his scientists and Microsoft's researchers can collaborate on the software needed to run the equipment his team plans to invent--and analyze the mountains of data created by gene sequencing. 

gene reader. Such big visions are routine for Hood. While at Caltech in the 1980s, he invented a machine that automatically sequences DNA--or reads the codes of human genes responsible for everything from hair color to cancer and heart disease. That $100,000 instrument now is standard equipment in genetic research. In all, Hood's lab developed 15 instruments using computers, robots, sensors, and chemical analyzers to automate tasks in biotechnology. Over 22 years, his Caltech group spawned four companies, including Applied Biosystems Inc., which sells the DNA-sequencing machines his lab invented. 

Sequencing machines, the cornerstone of modern genetic research, essentially unravel the order of the four constituent-base molecules, known as G, C, A, and T, that make up genes. The machines use fluorescent colors to mark the bases: red, green, blue, and yellow. A computer then "reads" the colors, identifying the order of the bases within the genes. This helps scientists understand the function of the 4,000 or so genes on any one of the 46 human chromosomes. It also makes it possible to create tests for genetically based diseases, some 3,000 of which already have been identified. And it's crucial for developing therapies to correct genetic defects and for designing genetically engineered drugs. In short, "DNA sequencing is the future of medicine," says J. Craig Venter, a former researcher at the National Institutes of Health and founder of the Institute for Genomic Research in Maryland, which has a $70 million sequencing contract with the federal government. 

Problem is, current technology is so slow that it would take $6 billion and 10 years to decipher the 3 billion bases contained in just one set of human chromosomes. Given the cost and time, the ability to "sequence larger segments of DNA in less time" is critical, says George B. Rathmann, chairman of Icos Corp., a Seattle-based biotech company. 

That is just what Hood intends to do. In two years, he plans to unveil a machine that will be 20 to 50 times as fast as today's devices. In the longer term, Hood's group is exploring "nanofabrication" to speed up gene sequencing. This would involve putting 100 to 500 gene fragments on a tiny chip, using biosensor techniques to read the DNA structure, then feeding this information into a miniature computer for processing. Such a system could decode in a third of a day the amount of genetic material it now takes a year to unravel, says Hood. 

GENOME PITCHMAN. Hood's grand plans don't surprise those who know him. With a PhD from Caltech in biochemistry and a medical degree from Johns Hopkins University, he has won renown for his research in understanding human auto-immune diseases. That work earned him a prestigious Albert Lasker Medical Research Award in 1987. And in 1990, he located the site of one of the genes that predispose people to multiple sclerosis. 

Hood is hardly an ivory-tower academic, however. He is one of the most effective pitchmen for the controversial Human Genome Project, a $3 billion effort in the U.S. to identify all human genes. He constantly promotes the potential of genetic manipulation to improve the human condition by giving at least one speech a week, testifying before Congress, and appearing on national tv. "Hood is seductive and engaging," says Arthur L. Caplan, director of the University of Minnesota's Center for Biomedical Ethics, who thinks Hood glosses over negative impacts of genetic screening and other ethical issues. "He is someone I have to be wary of." 

Although he works tirelessly for his cause, the Montana-born Hood still finds time for his original love, the outdoors. The grandson of a cowboy, he spent his honeymoon on a 120-mile wilderness climb in the Sierras. And he periodically braves the perils of mountaineering to climb peaks in Washington, British Columbia, and Alaska. 

CATCHING FLAK. Hood exercises his penchant for risk-taking at work, as well. He sees huge potential for a company that can sequence genes quickly and inexpensively for the federal government and drugmakers. Frederick Avery Bourke Jr., a Connecticut businessman and philanthropist, has pledged to deliver most of the $50 million investment for a Seattle-based company that he and Hood plan to found within six months. Theoretically, a sequencing assembly line might even let doctors routinely analyze genes of patients. The startup also would decode genes with commercial potential for the diagnosis and treatment of disease. 

Hood will face plenty of competition in these endeavors. Three other laboratories, including Los Alamos, the European Molecular Biology Laboratory in Heidelberg, Germany, and one at the University of Wisconsin are trying to develop faster sequencers. And if the sequencing company gets off the ground, it, too, could find rivals in other startups and existing biotech companies. In fact, the would-be company has already run into flak. Bourke touched off controversy earlier this year when he tried--and failed--to poach two top researchers from the Human Genome Project to head the new company. Now, he's looking for a chief executive plus several top scientists for the company, along with commitments from instrumentation, automation, and software companies to develop technology. 

Neither the competition from other labs nor the risks of a startup daunt Hood's backers, who think his track record, expertise, and financial support almost assure uw's lab--or any company he founds--of a head start. "He'll be one of the people who'll lead the way to dramatic advances over the next 10 years," says Microsoft's Gates. Seattle's biotech community seems certain of that. "Lee Hood," says icos' Rathmann, "is an incredible catalyst for good things." 

HOOD'S AMBITIOUS AGENDA Hood developed the pioneering automated equipment that sequences, or identifies, fragments of DNA, thus helping scientists uncover the functions of the 50,000 to 100,000 genes in the human body. He has just lured 13 top scientists to a new department at the University of Washington to develop the next generation of machines Basic science Hood's team will try to solve mysteries in human biology, such as the genetic basis of human development and the immune system Hood will provide seed money to young researchers and graduate students for projects too embryonic, or far-fetched, to qualify for government funding Technology Hood's team will develop a machine to "read" DNA that is 20 to 50 times faster than today's devices Spin-offs Hood expects to start a company that will sequence DNA for the federal government and for biotech, drug, and other companies DATA: BW 

Photograph: "Computation is the future of biology" ALEXANDER MARES-MANTON 


Document bw00000020011108dobg001lr


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 47 *******************    



Technology & Medicine 

Scientists Discover Molecules Curled Into Cage-Like Form --- Team Finds Carbonless Cousins To `Buckyballs' That Have Potential Commercial Uses 

By David Stipp 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
395 words 
3 December 1992
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B6 
English
(Copyright (c) 1992, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Israeli scientists said they have discovered new cage-like molecules that don't contain carbon, suggesting thousands of different compounds can form similar ball-shaped and tube-shaped molecules of potential commercial interest. 

During the past two years, scientists have hailed buckyballs, similar cage-like molecules made of carbon atoms, as a promising basis for new materials and chemical processes. Among other things, buckyballs may serve as building blocks for ultra-strong polymers, superconductors, electronic devices, industrial diamonds and other technologies. Researchers are already thinking about the electronic possibilities for the new molecules. 

The discovery of similar molecules that don't contain carbon promises to greatly expand the possibilities for making cage-like molecules. The Israeli team, at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, said their buckyball cousins are made of tungsten and sulfur atoms, which form both round and cylindrical structures according to pictures made with an electron microscope. 

The scientists created the molecules earlier in studies on materials for photovoltaic cells, but didn't realize at the time what they had, said Reshef Tenne, co-author of the Israeli report, which appears in today's issue of the journal Nature. But when they recently saw electron microscope pictures of carbon "buckytubes" discovered by a Japanese team, they noticed the carbon tubes closely resemble their molecules. Further tests confirmed the tungsten compound forms cages, he added. 

Like carbon, the tungsten compound normally exists in flat, layered sheets of atoms. At high temperatures, bonds between some of the atoms are broken and reformed in ways that make the sheets roll up into closed, cage-like structures, according to the Israeli scientists. Thousands of such layered compounds exist, and "we speculate than any of them will tend to close on themselves" to form cages under the right conditions, Dr. Tenne said. 

Indeed, a similar rolling up of atomic sheets is thought to form another family of novel cage-like compounds, dubbed metcars, reported earlier this year by a Pennsylvania State University team, said A. Welford Castleman, who led in the discovery. Metcars are metal-carbon compounds that are expected to have a number of potential useful properties, including unusual magnetic and electrical ones. 

Document j000000020011107doc300u8d


More Like This

 Article 48 *******************    



Developments to Watch JAPAN'S BIG PUSH TO BUILD CHIPS ATOM BY ATOM 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
226 words 
21 December 1992
Business Week 
Pg. 58 
Vol. Number 3298 
English
Copyright 1992 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

The semiconductor industry really took off in Japan in the late 1970s after the Ministry of International Trade & Industry funded $200 million of a catch-up program called the VLSI Project. Well, MITI is at it again. The ministry has just unveiled plans for another $200 million push--aimed at nanotechnology, or techniques for building ultratiny semiconductor devices, in some cases atom by atom. The cast of characters is mostly familiar: Among those that have already signed on are Fujitsu, Hitachi, NEC, and Toshiba. But this time, MITI hopes that they will be joined by Texas Instruments, Motorola, IBM, and other U. S. and European high-tech companies. That's because $200 million will just scratch the surface of the required investment. 

One goal of the Atom Technology Project is to develop methods for building a memory chip that can store 16 billion bits of data. That's 1,000 times as many as the latest 16-megabit chips, which most suppliers won't produce in volume until next year. Such chips will require transistors so small that it would take several thousand to span the width of a human hair. The R&D cost of a 16-gigabit chip could run $2 billion-plus, chipmakers estimate. 

Document bw00000020011107docl000sv


More Like This

 Article 49 *******************    



Technology 
In the Lab 

It Doesn't Get Much Smaller Than This 

By Laurence Hooper 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
1,198 words 
29 December 1992
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B2 
English
(Copyright (c) 1992, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

YORKTOWN HEIGHTS, N.Y. -- In-Whan Lyo has dropped something small. Or so he thinks; in a few minutes he'll find out for sure. 

When an object is only a few atoms across, looking for it takes time, a special microscope and a rack full of electronics. But people working in half a dozen fields need to know what happens when researchers such as Dr. Lyo try to maneuver such tiny items. 

Dr. Lyo hovers anxiously over his computer screen as it repaints the image of a glowing honeycomb -- actually an extreme close-up of a slice of silicon, the raw material of computer chips. This is where he thinks he has deposited a cluster of silicon atoms, using a burst of electricity to dislodge them from a slender tungsten needle just above the surface. It's a stunt only a handful of scientists have tried, toying with the tiny building blocks of matter. 

Along with his senior colleague at International Business Machines Corp., Phaedon Avouris, Dr. Lyo is a pioneer in "nanotechnology," which involves structures that are measured in nanometers, or billionths of a meter. That's a thousand times smaller than any feature in today's electronic devices, but it's at this never-before-seen scale that 21st-century circuitry will likely be built. 

As he fumbles with individual silicon atoms, Dr. Lyo is working on a process that can be used to construct minuscule versions of an electronic part that might show up in future computers. 

Before such atom-scale devices can be used, however, they must be understood. In their narrow, cluttered laboratory at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Drs. Lyo and Avouris are trying to discover the rules. 

These days, Japan's government and its electronics giants are investing heavily in cutting-edge machines to explore nanotechnology. Biologists and chemists see huge gains from manipulating matter an atom at a time. Still, the basic tool of nanotechnology was invented at an IBM laboratory in Zurich, and IBM, based in Armonk, N.Y., remains in the forefront of the field. 

That becomes clear in the lab, where clean-cut Dr. Lyo works in sneakers and a crew-neck sweater alongside portly Dr. Avouris, a scholarly figure in his gray beard and business suit. Diagrams and printouts dot the walls, showing results from experiments that have helped IBM set the pace in nanotechnology. 

As Dr. Lyo watches the silicon honeycomb on his screen, an ugly white blotch appears. It's the cluster of atoms that he dropped, bulging above the surface. At the same time, the once-blurry honeycomb jumps into glorious focus. Individual atoms now are clearly visible in tight hexagonal patterns. "Wow, look at that," says Dr. Lyo. The atoms he dropped came from the tip of his viewing instrument, a scanning tunneling microscope, or STM. The dropping of the atoms had an effect similar to wiping dirt off a lens -- although the picture could just as easily have gotten more smudged, as it did earlier in the day. 

At the atomic level, science is a hit-or-miss matter. 

The silicon Dr. Lyo is playing with lies a few feet away from its computer image, hidden inside a big vacuum device resembling a complex junction of water pipes. Different-sized steel cylinders poke off in all directions, focusing on a small chamber in which the STM sits, safe from contamination and mounted on a table to stop vibrations. 

Still, this set-up is more homely than intimidating. Much of the shiny steel is crudely cloaked in aluminum foil. A tennis ball jammed on the end of one cylinder protects scientists from sticking themselves on a sharp point. A fiberglass blanket keeps some equipment warm on wintry New York nights. 

Dr. Lyo twiddles a few knobs to adjust the position of the STM's tip, glancing at one of the scopes to gauge his actions. "It's sort of like playing an arcade game," he says. 

Indeed, while the STM sounds like impressive technology -- its IBM inventors won a Nobel Prize in 1987 -- it's actually fairly simple. A very thin computer-controlled tip hovers just over the surface that's being studied. An electrical current flows between the tip and the surface. By keeping the current constant while moving the tip, the STM can trace surface contours, even individual atoms, much as a blind person uses her hands to "see" a person's face. 

Most big chemistry labs now have an STM; among thousands of the machines all over the world, some can scan fast enough to see atoms in motion. New STMs can be as small as a pencil eraser and can cost more than $500,000 for a complete system. 

The technology in this lab is disarmingly primitive and thrifty, however. Dr. Lyo makes his own STM tips, for example, by dangling tungsten wire into a beaker of chemicals. When the wire weakens and snaps, the end above the beaker should have a point that tapers to a couple of atoms. 

"Just about everything in science is done by mistake," says Dr. Avouris. 

Mistake or no, the next step was obvious: Start moving atoms on purpose, and maybe build some basic electronic parts that could teach lessons about 21st-century computers. That has resulted over the past two years in some widely publicized parlor tricks, including an IBM logo made of xenon atoms, produced in a California IBM lab. 

No one thinks next-decade computer parts will be built using today's STMs. But Dr. Avouris has faith that one day there'll be a way to mass-produce atom-scale devices -- possibly by laying foundations on a crystal of silicon, then letting the silicon "grow" devices itself. 

Next year, the two scientists will work on building a tiny three-terminal device, the key to modern computer circuitry. At the moment, however, they're studying atom-scale versions of a simpler electronic device called a Schottky diode, a one-way electrical contact between a metal and a semiconductor such as silicon. In this case, the metal is the STM tip and the semiconductor is a tiny island of silicon atoms, only 10 nanometers across. The island is made the same way Dr. Lyo dropped the atom-cluster, using the STM like a robot arm. 

Already, Dr. Avouris has confirmed that Schottky diodes work just fine on a tiny scale. But there are some strange effects. For instance, the extra-small area of the device means that the electrical current passing through it is enormous -- a million amperes or more. That's much different than larger diodes. 

Moreover, the whims of quantum physics come into play at atomic levels and make manipulating atoms a guessing game. Still, Dr. Avouris thinks he and Dr. Lyo can figure out how their tiny diode works. Dr. Avouris recites the scientist's mantra: Chance favors the prepared mind. He adds, "We want to be there, and to understand as much as possible, so that chance doesn't miss us." 

Document j000000020011107doct00wkt


More Like This

 Article 50 *******************    



Technology & Health 

Researchers Report Advance in Creating Molecular Packages --- New `Wrappers' Bear Similarity To Buckyballs, May Have A Number of Applications 

By David Stipp 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
429 words 
15 January 1993
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE A5E 
English
(Copyright (c) 1993, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Call it shrink-wrapperene. 

Scientists said they have developed a process for placing tiny metal crystals within cage-like carbon molecules, creating a new class of materials with potential uses in electronics and other applications. 

The wrappers of these molecular packages resemble overgrown cousins of buckyballs, carbon cages formally named buckminsterfullerene because they resemble architect Buckminster Fuller's geodesic domes. Buckyballs repeatedly have surprised scientists during the past two years, showing various odd properties and promising advances in the development of industrial diamonds, new lubricants and other products. 

Researchers created the new compound by jumping a spark between small rods of graphite, a form of carbon used in pencil lead. One of the rods had a hollow core packed with a metal-containing compound called lanthanum oxide. The sparks deposited a grayish-black stalactite on the opposite rod. 

Pictures made with an electron microscope showed that the deposit was laced with carbon molecules resembling expanded oblong buckyballs. About half of them appeared to encapsulate metal crystals of a lanthanum-carbon compound, said Rodney Ruoff, a researcher at SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif., and coauthor of the study. 

A team led by Rice University researcher Richard Smalley previously reported trapping small clusters of atoms inside buckyballs. But only very small quantities of such molecular packages have been made. The latest study, a collaboration between SRI and Du Pont Co., opens the door for making large amounts of shrink-wrapped molecules. It is reported in today's issue of the journal Science. 

Scientists are excited about the advance partly because encapsulation protects unstable compounds from breaking down -- indeed, the metallic crystals created in the SRI team's experiment normally decompose rapidly when exposed to air but didn't degrade for days when encapsulated. The carbon cages should be "perfect little crucibles for studying materials that are difficult to handle," said Dr. Ruoff. Encapsulating iron or nickel compounds promises improved magnetic materials for use in data storage devices and other applications, he added. 

The most exciting encapsulation prospect is the possibility of making "nanowires," said Rice's Dr. Smalley. Such ultra-thin wires -- long, cylindrical carbon cages packed with metals -- would be extremely strong and are expected to be far better electrical conductors than copper. The latest study, said SRI's Dr. Ruoff, suggests that it will be possible "to stuff buckytubes with metals" in order to make such wires. 

Document j000000020011031dp1f001p4


More Like This

 Article 51 *******************    



Technology & Health 

NEC Scientists Find Link to Producing Thin Wire, Fibers --- Buckyball Molecules, Stretched Into Tubes, Sucked Up Lead Like Microscopic Straws 

By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
439 words 
28 January 1993
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B6 
English
(Copyright (c) 1993, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

TOKYO -- Scientists at NEC Corp. say they have made microscopic straws and used them to suck up molten lead, an advance that could one day lead to ultrathin wires, superstrong composite fibers, and possibly even tiny batteries. 

The new results are the latest chapter in the saga of so-called buckyballs, cage-like molecules of carbon formally known as buckminsterfullerene because they resemble the famed geodesic domes of U.S. engineer Buckminster Fuller. Since a team of German and U.S. scientists discovered in late 1990 how to make buckyballs in quantity, scientists have been captivated by the little spheres and their many odd properties. Within the past few years, researchers have made buckyballs conduct electricity without resistance, wrapped them around metal crystals, and stretched them into tiny, hollow "buckytubes." 

Buckytubes in particular have intrigued researchers because they might serve as a mold for fine wires, if only scientists could figure out a way to get liquid metal inside. Such fibers could also have tremendous tensile strength. But the process of manufacturing buckytubes had always produced tubes that are sealed at the ends, making it difficult to form the wires in the first place. 

Enter physicists Pulickel Ajayan and Sumio Iijima of NEC's Fundamental Research Laboratories. They have devised a way not only of opening up buckytubes, but of encouraging them to suck up liquid lead, in effect using them as microscopic drinking straws. They report their research in today's issue of the journal Nature. 

The physicists started with a jumble of buckytubes, which grow under special atmospheric conditions when a spark is passed between two carbon-based electrodes. After depositing a thin layer of lead over the buckytube heap, Messrs. Ajayan and Iijima put the resulting sample in an oven and heated it above lead's melting point for 30 minutes. 

When they later examined the sample with an electron microscope, the scientists found that the ends of some buckytubes had split open. What's more, when the lead melted, a strong suction developed in the mouth of the tube, drawing some of the lead inside. 

"Theoreticians had predicted that if you bring some molten material to the mouth of an open tube that it would be sucked inside, and that's essentially what we've seen," says Dr. Ajayan. Such capillary forces are similar to the forces that draw water up from a plant's roots to its leaves and stalks. 

Document j000000020011031dp1s002ui


More Like This

 Article 52 *******************    



Developments to Watch A HAIRY TALE ABOUT SUPERCONDUCTIVITY 

EDITED BY EMILY T. SMITH 
159 words 
1 February 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 67 
Vol. Number 3303 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

In 1985, chemists at Rice University announced a new carbon form: soccer-ball shapes they dubbed ''buckyballs.'' The discovery touched off a spate of research exceeded only by that following the discovery of ''warm'' superconductors in 1986. 

Last year, the two efforts converged. Researchers at AT&T Bell Laboratories discovered that combinations of buckyballs and metal atoms become superconductors at warm temperatures. In fact, the superconducting threshold rises with each additional metal atom that's crammed between the carbon balls, raising the odds of finding room-temperature superconductors. There's just one hitch: The mixtures go poof when exposed to air. Last month, researchers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill announced that buckyball hybrids can be protected from decomposition with a ''fur coat'' of polymer. The UNC scientists have grown polystyrene whiskers on buckyballs. Next comes determining whether the whiskers affect superconductivity. 

Document bw00000020011031dp21000oc


More Like This

 Article 53 *******************    



Science and Technology Lasers in a New Light --- Now, they're being used to produce novel materials and devices 

Neil Gross in Tokyo, with John Carey in Washington, Gary McWilliams in Boston, and Richard Brandt in San Francisco 
1,708 words 
15 March 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 94 
Vol. Number 3309 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

The pinprick pulses of light from Katsumi Tanigaki's tiny laser seem unlikely vehicles for landmark scientific discoveries. But as he peers at the faint green flashes, the 41-year-old NEC Corp. research manager expects nothing less. He has already pioneered ways to use beams of light to create pure silicon films by severing bonds between molecules--a key to packing more circuits on semiconductors. Now, Tanigaki and his colleagues at NEC's Exploratory Research Laboratory in Tsukuba expect lasers to deliver far grander breakthroughs. "People say that lasers are a mature technology," he muses. "But their most exciting applications are only now coming into view." 

It's true: For 30-odd years, scientists have understood how lasers create intense, focused beams of light, and how they alter the characteristics of molecules and atoms. But never before have researchers from so many fields probed these effects. Chemists call it laser chemistry. Physicists try a different tack, called atom optics, to manipulate and study individual atoms. Whatever the name, "chemistry and physics are converging, and lasers are at the crossroads," says Tanigaki. 

That convergence promises to create "new devices and new markets," predicts John Weiner, program director for atomic, molecular, and optical physics at the National Science Foundation. Within a decade, the ability of lasers to manipulate matter could lead to inexpensive flat-panel displays, ultraprecise measuring devices, computer storage systems with 1,000 times as much capacity as today's disk drives, and new materials with improved electrical characteristics and other yet-unimagined properties. 

Atom wiggling. From their birth in 1960, lasers have been ideal analytical tools: If you hit a molecule with a laser beam tuned to the right frequency, it will rescatter the light into a specific pattern, or change it in some way. This technique, called laser fluorescence, reveals much about the structure of molecules and what binds them. Researchers reasoned that the same process could alter or selectively break molecular bonds to produce chemicals--such as engineering plastics used in cars and other equipment. In the early 1980s, lured by new lasers that emitted ultraviolet light, big corporate labs in the U.S. and Europe flocked to the field as possibly a faster, cheaper alternative to chemical synthesis, the traditional way of altering molecular bonds to produce materials. But laser techniques were too crude, and the multinationals lost interest. 

Scientists pressed on, though, and now they are on the verge of major advances. Over the past year, researchers at the University of Michigan's Center for Ultrafast Optical Sciences and Kent State University have split light beams into separate colors. Using liquid crystals, they vary the intensity and timing of the different-colored beams. Then they reassemble them into pulses of light with precisely engineered shapes. They hope that these shaped pulses will be far better than ordinary laser beams at teasing apart selected chemical bonds. 

At Massachusetts Institute of Technology, meanwhile, chemistry professor Keith A. Nelson is training extremely short pulses of laser light on atoms in crystals. So far, he can wiggle individual atoms, observing their reactions using laser fluorescence. Soon, Nelson hopes to rearrange atoms in the crystal, which would let him construct entirely new materials. The trick will be making the changes stick, by adjusting the sequence of laser blasts. "It isn't obvious yet what sequence to use," Nelson says. 

Fullerenes. Serendipity could provide an answer. It happened in 1984, when Richard E. Smalley, a chemistry professor at Rice University, trained lasers on carbon molecules. The laser vibrations set off a chemical reaction, producing clusters of molecules in unique geometric configurations called Fullerenes, for their resemblance to Buckminster Fuller's geodesic dome. Today, a dozen companies are making them in hopes of creating new superstrong plastics or catalysts. 

The Japanese also are making strides. Over the years, Tokyo's Ministry of International Trade & Industry (MITI) has helped finance dozens of laser research projects, most for boosting the performance of lasers. But a few, such as one at Idemitsu Kosan Co., Japan's largest domestic oil company, chase important materials. There, team leader Nobuo Shimo uses a laser that emits ultraviolet light to irradiate a tank filled with organometallic gases. With a single burst of light, Shimo can produce a few grams of magnetic materials called ferrites. These are used in electronic components, such as amplifiers, and command prices high enough to justify the cost of using lasers. "We don't have perfect selectivity," says Shimo, "but we have tricks to get around that." 

More widely used products of laser chemistry could be novel data-processing and storage devices. In today's CD-ROMs and audio CDs, laser light is reflected off microscopic pits stamped into a plastic disk. Lasers inscribe and read data in these pits as digital information. Such disks can store up to 500 million bytes of data. But if instead of making little pits, you switched individual molecules on and off inside a block of solid material, then each square centimeter could hold roughly 10 billion bytes. That's enough to fit 1 trillion characters, or a stack of New York City's bulky Yellow Pages, on a sugar cube-sized block. 

To that end, Sony, Hitachi, NEC, and a few others are working on molecular storage concepts first expounded by IBM in the late 1970s. Big Blue's scientists saw that the molecules of certain crystals and glass are filled with tiny imperfections, causing them to absorb light at slightly different frequencies, or colors. By hitting a molecule with a laser of the right frequency and intensity, you can change the frequency at which it absorbs light. The detectable change can then be read as a bit of information. 

The next, more difficult step will be finding suitable materials for this approach. Already, the Japanese are amassing huge data bases on how different materials react to varying frequencies and intensities of light. "It won't happen quickly," predicts Wilfried Lenth, a research manager at IBM's Almaden Research Center in San Jose. But it's the kind of painstaking pursuit at which Japanese scientists excel. 

Similar photochemical reactions may lead much sooner to improved flat-panel screens for computers and TVs. In today's active-matrix liquid-crystal displays, each dot is switched on and off by a separate transistor. Fabricating large screens with millions of transistors is a manufacturing nightmare. By mixing photosensitive molecules with a special liquid crystal, Tomiki Ikeda, a laser chemist at Tokyo Institute of Technology, showed in January that he can replace the electronic grid with a simpler configuration of lasers. They trigger chemical reactions in the materials sandwiched between the plates that make up the screen. The result could ultimately be sharper pictures, larger screens, and lower manufacturing costs, says Ikeda. 

Cross fire. Physicists, too, see payoffs from using lasers. Atoms normally are in constant motion. But by capturing them in a cross fire of laser beams, scientists at Stanford, MIT, the National Institute of Standards & Technology, and other labs "cool" atoms into slow motion, so they can be manipulated. In this way, they hope to create ultraprecise measuring equipment, such as gyroscopes used in aerial navigation or tools for sculpting miniature machines. 

One leader in cooling atoms is Steven Chu, a physics professor at Stanford University. After other researchers had shown that a laser beam tuned to the right frequency can slow atoms down, Chu trained six beams on one atom, blocking it in every direction. In those conditions, the atom freezes to a temperature just a few millionths of one degree above absolute zero, -460F. Cooled atoms can be tossed in the air in a "fountain." Scientists measure their acceleration, and so determine the strength of the gravitational field tugging at them as they fall. 

Chu's measurements are sensitive enough to detect differences in the gravitational field of just three centimeters' movement from the center of the earth. He can also take readings a few times per second, compared with one measurement every 10 seconds with older techniques. Although still only one-thirtieth as accurate as today's best current techniques, Chu's approach, say scientists, has the potential to produce the most accurate measurements. Within a decade, Chu thinks that gravitational sensors on trucks or aircraft could pinpoint oil deposits better than existing methods because they could best measure the differing densities between oil and the surrounding material. Dozens of labs are also building atomic clocks that could be 100 times as accurate as devices currently used in navigation, scientific testing, and communications systems: The best of these are accurate to one second in a million years. 

DASHED DREAMS. At the National Science Foundation, meanwhile, physicist Weiner envisions beams of cooled atoms replacing some of today's semiconductor fabrication equipment. For years, engineers have used beams of atoms or molecules to construct minuscule electronic structures on the surface of silicon. The trouble is, focusing a beam of normal, "hot" atoms leaves the beam too weak to deposit the thin lines of atoms needed to build tiny structures. Using cooled atoms overcomes the problem, says Weiner. That would make it easier to craft tiny engines, pumps, and other "micromachines" that will repair damaged circuits or monitor key substances in the body, such as blood-sugar levels. 

All this progress doesn't dazzle skeptics, who have watched the inadequacies of lasers dash one bright dream after another. Many lasers are still not as efficient as they need to be. And the lasers that are best suited to chemical or atomic manipulations can run up to $80,000. "Lasers still cost too much," says Koichi Tsukamoto, senior reseacher in photon processes at MITI's Electrotechnical Lab. 

Still, lasers are improving fast. Manufacturers are boosting their power and life spans, and bringing down costs. As that continues, the painstaking work of 30 years should start to pay off in better living through physics and chemistry. 

Photograph: Tanigaki of NEC holds a model of a molecule created with lasers 


Document bw00000020011031dp3f001ih


More Like This

 Article 54 *******************    



Developments to Watch FITTING HOLLYWOOD EPICS ON A CREDIT-CARD-SIZE GIZMO 

EDITED BY EMILY T. SMITH 
184 words 
5 April 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 83 
Vol. Number 3313 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Scanning tunneling microscopes (STMs), invented in 1981, let scientists rearrange atoms on a substrate. By the late 1980s, some labs were lining up atoms to spell out corporate logos. For the Japanese, it was more than a frivolous exercise: In March, collaborators at the University of Osaka Prefecture and Ion Engineering Research Institute Corp. in Osaka demonstrated that STMs could create a new recording technology that packs up to three hours of color motion pictures on a device the size of a credit card. 

The STMs open up tiny holes on an arsenic-selenide film deposited on graphite. A separate probe interprets the presence or absence of the holes as digital sequences of zeros and ones that a computer can translate as data, music, or images. Since the holes are far smaller than the pits on audio CDs and CD-ROM disks--just 79 billionths of an inch--more information can be crammed in a smaller space. The researchers aim to have a prototype by mid-decade. 

Document bw00000020011031dp45001vp


More Like This

 Article 55 *******************    



Developments to Watch TURNING JUMBO MOLECULES INTO CHEMICAL FACTORIES 

EDITED BY WILLIAM D. MARBACH 
283 words 
12 April 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 93 
Vol. Number 3314 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

For materials science, March rolled in with a surprise and went out with an even bigger one. First, a team headed by Yale University chemist Martin Saunders made an intriguing discovery about buckyballs. When the soccer-ball-shaped molecules are heated to more than 1,112F, a door opens. Through it, a few atoms can be stuffed inside the carbon spheres, making it possible to combine elements that cannot be joined by chemical bonding. 

Then, at the end of March, University of Michigan scientists unveiled the world's biggest hydrocarbon molecule at a meeting of the American Chemical Society (ACS). Also spherical in shape, its diameter is five times that of a buckyball, giving it 100 times more internal capacity. This jumbo molecule can gobble up 1,000 or more atoms--enough to make it useful for delivering drugs to target organs within the body, says chemist Jeffrey S. Moore, who led the Michigan research. 

More important, it should be possible to tailor the stuffing so that the molecules would act as microchemistry factories. One of Moore's goals is to develop a system that would mimic plants and turn sunlight into chemical energy. 

Other researchers are also trying to build jumbo molecules for microchemistry. At the ACS meeting, Cornell University chemists reported on a technique for growing so-called dendritic polymers that repeatedly branch until they form a sphere. In one potential application, such a ball has an exterior that attracts water and an interior that repels water. This may be a different way to combine two ingredients that normally won't mix, such as oil and water. 

Document bw00000020011031dp4c001z8


More Like This

 Article 56 *******************    



Technology & Medicine 

NEC Physicists Develop Method to Store And Erase Information Using Atoms 

By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
486 words 
3 June 1993
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B5 
English
(Copyright (c) 1993, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

TOKYO -- Call it the world's smallest Etch-a-Sketch. 

Physicists at NEC Corp. said they have succeeded in using a sophisticated probe to paint and erase tiny lines roughly 20 atoms thick, a development that may one day lead to ultra-high-capacity storage devices for computer data. 

While scientists have long been able to manipulate individual atoms using a tool called a "scanning tunneling microscope," or STM, they haven't previously been able to easily erase the patterns they created as a result. Since the ability to reliably "write" and erase data is key to computer storage devices, the NEC research is an important first step toward using STMs to store computer data at the atomic level. 

A STM is essentially a long, computer-controlled needle that tapers to a point just a few atoms thick. By flowing an electric current between the needle and a flat surface material, scientists can use the STM to make an image of the surface atoms -- and, by adjusting the current, to yank out individual atoms and set them down somewhere else. 

The main problem for researchers to date has been the fact that moving atoms around doesn't make for reliable storage. The rearranged atoms sometimes migrate in unexpected directions, and are difficult to put back into place when it's time to erase the data. 

NEC physicists Akinobu Sato and Yuji Tsukamoto, instead of using a STM to store data in rearranged surface atoms, sought to find a special material they could "paint" with an STM current-and then "erase" when they reversed that current. 

Drs. Sato and Tsukamoto hit pay dirt when they laid down a thin film of a glassy substance related to the metal vanadium. When exposed to the current from a STM tip, the normally jumbled atoms of this glassy material rearrange themselves into crystalline shapes. Under the reverse current, the crystal "melts" back into its jumbled form once more. 

Using this technique, Drs. Sato and Tsukamoto managed to draw several lines just 10 nanometers, or one hundred-millionth of a meter, wide. They found they could draw and erase these lines a total of 10 times, after which the crystals became "fused" and failed to melt. 

The team reports its work in today's issue of the scientific journal Nature. 

The limited number of erasures is one of several problems scientists must overcome before such techniques can achieve practical use. Dr. Sato says that the time it takes to write or erase a line is still far too slow: At one millisecond, the NEC process is about a thousand times slower than a conventional magnetic disk drive. Dr. Sato, however, is convinced researchers will be able to find materials whose crystals form and dissolve more quickly. 

Document j000000020011031dp6300eq6


More Like This

 Article 57 *******************    



Developments to Watch ULTRATINY WIRES THAT MAKE THEMSELVES 

EDITED BY WILLIAM D. MARBACH 
208 words 
28 June 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 101 
Vol. Number 3325 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Working on the frontiers of the 21st century, scientists have made a key advance in nanotechnology--building things from individual atoms and molecules. Researchers at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Yale University, and the University of South Carolina have produced molecules that assemble themselves into ultratiny wires. 

First, a team at Los Alamos used supercomputers to model hypothetical polymers, searching for one that would conduct electricity and bond to silver or gold contacts. After a year, they settled on a complex structure of linked rings of atoms, including carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen. At South Carolina, chemistry professor James Tour produced the concoction. 

When Los Alamos researchers poured the substance onto a silicon wafer with embedded silver and gold contact points, the molecules attached themselves to the metal--then formed themselves into wires connecting adjacent contacts. Yale's Mark A. Reed, professor of electrical engineering, is testing to see how much electricity the polymeric wires can carry. "Our next challenge," says Los Alamos' Gary D. Doolen, "will be to try to design a transistor out of self-assembling molecules." The ultimate goal: next-century computer chips 1,000 times as powerful as today's best number-crunchers. 

Document bw00000020011031dp6s0006g


More Like This

 Article 58 *******************    



Science & Technology WINDOWS ON THE WORLD OF ATOMS --- An awesome new breed of microscopes will have far-ranging uses 

Neil Gross in Tokyo, with Emily Smith in New York and John Carey in Washington 
2,106 words 
30 August 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 62 
Vol. Number 3334 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

A computer screen fills slowly from the top down with an image of spherical projections jutting out from a surface. They look like Easter eggs sitting in a cardboard tray. In reality, though, they represent the structure of molybdenum atoms in a crystal lattice. The picture shows the atoms, just 4 billionths of an inch in diameter, lined up with the precision of a military formation, a characteristic of metals. 

A decade ago, this atom's-eye view didn't exist. Back then, scientists had to deduce much of what they knew of the structure of atoms and the laws that govern their behavior from mathematical calculations and chemical reactions. But today, using a dazzling new breed of "scanning probe microscopes" (SPMs) that physically sense a surface rather than magnify it, researchers can create three-dimensional images of a material's atomic structure. They can even pick up atoms, one by one, and move them. SOARING DEMAND. The implications are awesome. If scientists can plumb the characteristics and behavior of individual atoms on surfaces, they can better understand the properties and behavior of all matter. They may thus learn why metals corrode, why two surfaces adhere, or how biological reactions occur. The microscopes have also emerged as the primary tools of "nanoscience," the next frontier in miniaturization that will affect all sorts of products. The SPMs' manipulation of atoms could help engineers shrink chip circuits, now roughly one-four-hundredth the thickness of a human hair, to one-thousandth that size--making chips many times faster. SPMs "are fantastically powerful," says Reizo Kaneko, a Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. scientist. "For the first time, we can watch atomic events in the real world and build devices based on that." 

Ever since the first instrument, the scanning tunneling microscope or STM, won the 1986 Nobel prize for its inventors at IBM's Zurich lab, scientists and engineers have been exploring the atomic terrain. Biologists are training SPMs on living cells to watch them in action at a molecular level. And now, by gazing at a computer screen, engineers at Ford Motor Co. can visually grasp the forces that cause materials in clutches, brakes, and paint to wear. "If we can better diagnose what happens to materials at the atomic level, we can improve them more efficiently," says Alan D. Brailsford, head of the physics department at Ford Research Laboratories. 

The devices also are moving onto factory lines. Electronics giants IBM, NEC, and Matsushita Electric use custom-made SPMs for inspection tasks during the production of silicon wafers, recording heads, and disk-drive platters. Even more important, researchers have created the first crude SPM chips. One day, chips fitted with hundreds of SPMs could be employed as sensors powerful enough to emulate human vision, be used as probes that manipulate human genes, or in ultrahigh-capacity information-storage systems. "We can't begin to glimpse all the applications," says IBM physicist Heinrich Rohrer, co-inventor of the STM. 

It's no surprise, then, that demand for the devices is soaring. Roughly five SPM makers have sprung up since 1986. Last year, the largest, Digital Instruments in Santa Barbara, Calif., sold $21 million worth. Next year, global demand for SPMs, which cost between $60,000 and $500,000, could hit about $100 million, up from $50 million this year, says Marketing Director Tim Van Slambrouck of TopoMetrix in Santa Clara, Calif. 

The race to harness SPMs is sparking intense international rivalry. Japanese electronics makers were among the first to grasp the instruments' potential. And when it comes to exploring nanoscience and the technologies that make it possible, Japan is already "far ahead of anybody else," says Rohrer, who watches Japanese research efforts. In fact, Japan considers SPMs so important that in January the government kicked off the $250 million Atom Manipulation project. It is pooling the talents of 30 electronics and materials companies, including Motorola Inc. and Texas Instruments Inc., to develop new SPMs and other equipment. 

The STM that Rohrer and Gerd Binnig invented in 1981 is based on an electronic effect known as "tunneling," in which a minuscule current of electrons jumps between two materials placed in proximity. As the distance shrinks or lengthens, the current becomes stronger or weaker. That variation is the basis of the machine's powerful probe mechanism. In an STM, the tunneling current seeps between a metal tip resembling a tiny phonograph needle and the target sample. The tip, just a few atoms in diameter, drags back and forth slightly above the sample. As the current fluctuates, a computer measures the changes and translates them into an image on the screen. 

Trouble is, the STM works only on conducting surfaces, such as metals. So in 1985, IBM's Binnig and two associates invented the atomic force microscope, or AFM, which can probe biological samples. Instead of creating images by measuring changes in current, the AFM measures variations in the repulsive forces between the atoms on the microscope's tip and atoms on the surface of the sample (illustration). Unlike such instruments as electron microscopes, which require elaborate sample preparation and work only in a vacuum, an AFM functions in air or under water and can probe a sample in its natural state. 

In the past two years, moreover, scientists have designed variations of the AFM that are exquisitely sensitive to changes in magnetism, temperature, and electrochemical properties. At American Telephone & Telegraph Co.'s Bell Laboratories, physicist Eric Betzig is perfecting the near-field scanning optical microscope. By using a probe of fiber-optic wire that emits light, it gets nearly as good resolution as the AFM without touching the sample. That eliminates wear on the sample and avoids distortions caused by contact with the tip. 

Ironically, the computer renderings created by SPMs have outpaced understanding of how atoms behave. Are the occasional spaces between molecules in a sample a defect in the material or some other artifact? "You have to know a lot about the surface you are looking at," says John M. Rooney, research and development vice-president at Sun Chemical Corp., to correctly interpret the images. Even so, some companies are now confident enough to put the machines on production lines: Sun Chemical in Fort Lee, N.J., has installed an AFM to monitor how well inks and coatings adhere to paper. 

SPMs are also proving their worth at IBM. Nearly two years ago, Big Blue started using a specially designed AFM to inspect the width and depth of circuit lines etched on semiconductor wafers at its Burlington facility in Essex Junction, Vt. The SXM Workstation, as it's called, has 50 times greater resolution than the electron microscope IBM previously used for the task. What's more, the 8-inch wafers, which contain 118 chips each, don't have to be broken apart to do the inspections. That saves about $1 million a year on one 16-megabit DRAM line, says Michael L. Young, senior associate engineer at the Burlington plant. IBM also hopes to profit by marketing the SXM through Veeco Instruments Inc. So far, IBM has booked six orders. 

Meanwhile, the AFM's ability to create images of molecules in living tissue is producing intriguing finds. At the University of Chicago, Dr. Morton Arnsdorf uses an AFM to peel membrane layers from living cells. This year, such a "nanodissection" produced the first pictures of the inner surface of gap-junctions, the pore-like communication channels that connect adjacent cells. Their malfunction can lead to heart-rhythm disturbances and other disorders. Doctors hope images of the structure will give them clues to develop better drugs to treat the malfunction. 

SPMs' ability to move atoms may also help revolutionize information storage. IBM scientists indicated as much in 1990, when they used an STM to arrange individual xenon atoms to spell out the company's logo. The exercise took all day, but it drove home a point: If you can manipulate atoms and read their presence or absence as digital language, the potential exists for atomic-scale data storage. In theory, the Library of Congress could be stored on an 8-inch silicon wafer, says Don W. Shaw, director of Texas Instruments' Tsukuba Research & Development Center in Japan. BILLIONS OF BITS. IBM continues to push the frontiers of using microscopes in computing. Scientists at its Almaden Research Center in San Jose, Calif., use a laser to heat an AFM tip as it's pressed against a plastic disk to form a shallow pit. By reading these pits, which are one-tenth the size of those on CD-ROMs, as ones and zeros, researchers think they can store 30 billion bits of data in a square inch of disk space, about 50 times the storage of CD-ROMs. 

Still, today's AFMs can read only 1 million bits per second, one-third as many as conventional devices. To be used in information storage, or for nanotechnology, they need to be much faster. The key is creating chips that have many tips working in parallel, says Noel C. MacDonald, director of Cornell University's National Nanofabrication Facility. MacDonald wants to put 1,000 SPM tips on a fingernail-size silicon chip. Do that, and arrays of chips could move thousands of atoms in a microsecond or create sensors that could emulate human sight or hearing. Such technology is the "precursor of what electronics will look like in 10 years," he says. 

So far, MacDonald has managed to get 25 tips vibrating in parallel on a chip. Each tip, complete with three micromotors and a stylus, takes up just 3/1,000ths of a square inch. MacDonald thinks this could become a prototype for a sensor that would be a faster, more dependable accelerometer than is now used to deploy automobile airbags. 

Takao Okada, manager of Olympus Optical Co.'s nanometrics lab, is also using parallel arrays to create more sensitive SPMs. Working with AFM co-inventor Calvin F. Quate, a physics professor emeritus at Stanford University, Okada has shrunk an AFM to a size where 500 will fit on an 8-inch wafer. The trick was to create a film that measures the force of atoms pressing against a microscope's stylus. This film allows a microscope to be fabricated as part of a silicon circuit, using conventional chip- making processes. Such sensitive devices could be used to identify and manipulate the amino-acid sequences that make up genes, thus generating clues about the causes and cures of disease. NATURE'S ANSWER. In Kaneko's lab, scientists are using SPMs to learn lessons from nature that may help them create nanodevices. In one case, a researcher probes the flagellum, or propeller, of a bacterium. The molecules that connect the tail to the cell are nature's answer to a bearing. This structure, far smaller than the tiniest element that can be etched on a silicon chip, can spin at 10,000 rotations per minute. Understanding how the flagellum works without breaking down could help Kaneko craft tiny disk drives and motors. 

There's a debate over whether the U.S. or Japan has the lead in SPMs. Some experts, including Slambrouck, think the rapid evolution of microscope technology plays to the advantage of nimble U.S. startups. When it comes to building machines that are useful today, "there's a lot more effort and a lot more work in the U.S. than in Japan," concurs AT&T's Betzig. Still, Betzig concedes that Tokyo's effort is well-funded and that the Japanese produce some of the finest microscope components, including tips. So if a single market, such as computer memory, ever creates massive demand for SPMs, "there's a risk that large Japanese manufacturers would throw down a lot of resources" and fly by U.S. producers, says Slambrouck. 

No matter who leads in the race to master SPM technology, the devices are altering the scientific and industrial landscape. By bringing the atomic world to the computer screen, the microscopes have opened a door to the domain of unseen forces and to nanotechnology. Even if this doesn't lead immediately to libraries-on-a-chip, the visual signposts that SPMs provide will help extend the frontiers of scientific discovery. 

Photograph: CORNELL'S MacDONALD: PUTTING MICROSCOPES ON CHIPS TO MAKE THEM FASTER PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL GREENLAR Illustration: A MICROSCOPE WITH AN ATOMIC VIEW 


Document bw00000020011031dp8u001h2


More Like This

 Article 59 *******************    



LAB NOTES 

LAB NOTES 

By Amal Kumar Naj 
997 words 
29 September 1993
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1993, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

Forget Recycling, Turn 

Plastics Back Into Oil 

SCIENTISTS are converting plastics back into crude oil as an alternative to recycling. 

The trick is analagous to converting a sheet of aluminum back into powdery bauxite or a cake back into flour. The oil produced from plastics "is like any crude oil extracted from the ground," says Mehdi Taghiei, an engineer at the University of Kentucky's Institute for Mining and Minerals in Lexington. He said the oil can be refined into different grades of fuel or used to make new plastics. 

The researchers say conversion can eliminate the need to recycle plastics, which involves complex and tedious steps. Plastic soft-drink bottles, for instance, can't simply be melted together and recycled into new products, because they contain as many as five different polymers, which are incompatible with each other when they are melted. 

To convert plastics into crude oil, the researchers put them into a stainless steel reactor filled with hydrogen and containing an alumina silicate catalyst. The reactor is then heated to 400 to 450 degrees Celsius at high pressures. Dr. Taghiei says the catalyst and the hydrogen act in unison to break down the long chains and rings of hydrogen and carbon, which make up plastics, into small chains, which are similar to those in petroleum oil. "The difference between plastic and oil is that in oil, molecules are lighter," he says. 

"We're now trying to develop the most economical way to commercialize it," says Dr. Taghiei, who estimates that the plastic wastes produced in the U.S. can generate "over 80 million barrels of oil a year," about five days' U.S. supply. 

Buckyballs May Add Zip 

To Images From Copiers 

BUCKYBALLS, a recently discovered form of carbon, may improve copiers' imaging capabilities, a Xerox team says. 

Since its discovery in 1985, the new form of carbon has sparked the imagination of the scientific world. It has properties distinct from the other two known forms of carbon, graphite and diamond. Moreover, the molecule's geodesic shape lends itself to linking up with other atoms and molecules to form new compounds with new properties. 

Buckyball carbon, named after the inventor of the geodesic dome, Buckminster Fuller, was first produced in significant quantities in 1990. Xerox researchers say they recently received patents for use of the buckyball compounds in a wide range of applications in copiers, including ink, toner and developer. "We have enough information to say that the materials have potential, but we still have a lot of discoveries to make," says Ronald Ziolo, a senior scientist at the company. 

He says experiments at Xerox indicate that the materials can improve a copier's images as a result of the size of the buckyball molecule. The smaller the carbon particles, the higher the resolution, and buckyballs are one-thousandth the size of the carbon particles in the toner in today's copiers. 

Dr. Ziolo says experiments also have yielded results suggesting that the material may produce brilliant color images. While the carbon in copiers today is black and stays black in solution, the soluble buckyball changes to amber and red in solution. He says that adding new groups of atoms and molecules can produce additional colors. The colors are "so magnificent" that buckyball compounds may produce images that are more vivid than is possible now, Dr. Ziolo says. 

Fiddling With Fat in Hogs 

To Deliver Better Bacon 

PORK CHOPS as healthy as chicken? 

Instead of trying to make pork a bit healthier by producing leaner hogs, researchers at Iowa State University are taking a different approach. "What we're doing is changing the composition of fats" in the hogs, says Murray Kaplan, a professor of nutrition. 

The scientists took the standard hog ration and replaced the lard, which contains saturated fat, with soybean oil, which is high in polyunsaturated fat. This seemed desirable because saturated fat raises cholesterol levels in humans, causing heart disease. Polyunsaturated fat has the same number of calories but doesn't add to the cholesterol load. 

In the hog rations, the researchers varied the amount of soybean oil from 10% to 40% of the total ration. The pork from hogs that ate the 40% ration contained only 19% saturated fat, compared with 25% in the standard pork, Dr. Kaplan says. The proportion of polyunsaturated fat in the pork rose to 29.3% from 7.8% in normal pork, he says. 

Chicken contains 21.6% saturated fat and 19.5% polyunsaturated fat, says Dr. Kaplan. "Our pork is beginning to look like chicken," he says. 

Dr. Kaplan says that a taste panel hasn't found any difference between the altered pork and the standard pork in appearance and taste. Still, the researchers haven't started wooing hog raisers. "We need to feed the meat to humans to see if it alters their cholesterol levels before we can say it's a healthier product," Dr. Kaplan says. 

Odds and Ends 

AN ANCIENT Chinese herbal medicine used as a hangover remedy may curb the desire for alcohol, report researchers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Injections of the medicine, called Xing-Jiu-Ling, into a strain of rat to alcohol addiction significantly reduced their craving for alcohol without affecting their desire for food and water. The researchers say the compound, a mixture of extracts from seven plants, might be able to reduce human's "craving to drink alcohol by as much as 60%." . . . Researchers at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign say they have created a robot that is capable of hand-eye coordination. Its electronic camera locates an object and then, as the mechanical arm moves toward it, updates the robot's "brain" 15 to 20 times a second and checks the motion a thousand times a second. Because the signals are so rapid, the robot arm makes "a nice, smooth motion" and grasps "any object within reach," the researchers say. 

Document j000000020011031dp9t00paq


More Like This

 Article 60 *******************    



Developments to Watch BIGGER BANGS IN THE HEAT OF THE NITROGEN 

EDITED BY RUTH COXETER 
192 words 
4 October 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 123 
Vol. Number 3339 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Eight years of tinkering with exotic carbon-60 molecules, dubbed fullerenes for their resemblance to Buckminster Fuller's geodesic domes, hasn't yet produced the commercially useful catalysts, superconductors, and superstrong plastics that scientists initially predicted. So researchers at Japan's National Institute of Materials & Chemical Research in Tsukuba City and Nissan Motor Co. in Tokyo kept the structure but decided to build it using different atoms. 

They recently ran supercomputer simulations that concluded that a fullerene with 60 nitrogen atoms is plausible. The software models suggest that N60 would resemble C60's structure without its stability. Nitrogen gas would probably have to be frozen and compressed, then blasted with a powerful laser. The resulting clusters--assuming any appeared--would be highly volatile. Exposed to heat, they'd revert instantly to gas, releasing enormous energy in the process. That might lead to commercially useful explosives or rocket fuels, says Takehiro Matsunaga, the institute's chief researcher. His simulations show that N60 could pack 10% greater lift than the liquid oxygen used to launch today's rockets. 

Document bw00000020011031dpa40024d


More Like This

 Article 61 *******************    



Developments to Watch CRAFTY CRYSTALS-- JUST AS SMALL AS THEY CAN BE 

EDITED BY RUTH COXETER 
221 words 
22 November 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 137 
Vol. Number 3347 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

It isn't yet nanotechnology--patching things together atom by atom--but University of Georgia researchers believe they're close. Chemist Michael Duncan and graduate student Jeffrey S. Pilgrim have discovered a way to grow tiny crystals, measured in mere billionths of a meter, which may prove useful in making both semiconductor chips and catalysts. Dubbed nanocrystals, these flyspeck crystals can contain the absolute minimum number of atoms--27--for cubic structures composed of two elements such as carbon and a metal. 

The nanocrystals are produced by vaporizing titanium or other metal by zapping it with a laser, then mixing the metal vapor with methane, a gas that contains carbon. If the research proceeds smoothly, Duncan says it could ultimately be possible to grow metal-carbon structures that would be far smaller than transistors on today's microchips. As catalysts, titanium-carbon nanocrystals should be vastly more efficient than anything now known. That's because the key to catalytic processes is the amount of surface area exposed to the reaction--and shrinking the size of catalyst molecules increases their surface-to-volume ratio. Duncan cautions, though, that his work is "still very fundamental, and it's not sure when, if ever, it will become practical." 

Document bw00000020011031dpbm0032y


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 62 *******************    



Developments to Watch AT&T BRINGS MOLECULES INTO SHARPER FOCUS 

EDITED BY RUTH COXETER 
254 words 
6 December 1993
Business Week 
Pg. 85 
Vol. Number 3349 
English
Copyright 1993 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

How do you look at a molecule? It's not so hard with an electron microscope--but getting a good look with the optical scanning type can be devilishly difficult. The problem: The optical "signature" of the molecule is masked by the huge volume of surrounding haze. That haziness can be minimized by focusing the probe beam more tightly. But the focus of conventional lenses just isn't tight enough. Researchers at AT&T Bell Laboratories say they have solved that problem with a new kind of microscope that funnels light through an optical fiber that tapers to 100 billionths of a meter, or one-thousandth the width of a human hair. 

The Bell Labs researchers, Eric Betzig and Rob Chichester, reported in the issue of Science due out on Nov. 26 that they used their "near-field" scanning optical microscope to identify single molecules with more than 100 times the sensitivity of any previous method. The system allows them to generate a precise map of individual molecules on the surface of a specimen. Bell Labs sees a wide range of uses for the technology in cell biology, analytical chemistry, genetics, and in the new field of molecular engineering, which involves building electrical and mechanical devices out of individual molecules. Last year, Bell Labs announced that it used near-field imaging technology with a fiber to store data almost 100 times as densely as commercial optical-storage systems. 

Document bw00000020011031dpc6003bs


More Like This

 Article 63 *******************    



THE INFORMATION REVOLUTION Science 

267 words 
1 May 1994
Business Week 
Pg. 86 
Vol. Special 1994 Bonus Issue 
English
Copyright 1994 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Photograph: SHOCK TREATMENT: After January's quake, scientists overlaid a U.S. Geological Survey digital topographical map of the L.A. basin (below) with seismic data from the California Institute of Technology to study aftershocks. Dot colors represent intensity, with pink-purple the biggest jolts. The model at right is also of interest to Angelenos: It's for smog. Generated by Carnegie Mellon researchers, it shows levels of carbon monoxide and other pollutants--and how they interact with topography, winds, and other meteorological effects. Photograph: LOOK INTO YOUR HEART: A 3-D model shows the pumping action of the muscle wall and the blood flow in a human heart. Oxygen-rich blood (red) enters the left ventricle (actually on the right, as one views the chest); low-oxygen blood fills the right. Recreating a single heartbeat takes a week's calculations on a Cray C90. E Photograph: SILICON VALLEYS: The Lilliputian world of individual atoms is revealed in this striking view of the surface of a silicon crystal. Created with a ``scanning tunneling microscope,'' the image distinguishes clusters of antimony atoms (the reddish peaks) from the ridges of silicon atoms. Photograph: ACCU-WEATHER: Computers have been invaluable for analyzing and displaying atmospheric data. Developed by IBM scientists, the image on the left, viewed from over the South Pole, shows the density of the high-altitude ozone layer that protects the Earth. The bright redindicates the highest ozone level. The image above highlights the structure and dynamics of the Earth's atmosphere, displaying wind speeds and patterns in the spring over the Northern Hemisphere. 


Document bw00000020011028dq510015g


More Like This

 Article 64 *******************    



Technology & Health 

Manufacturing Chips By `Growing' Them May Prove Possible --- Physicists Discover Method With Potential to Change How Circuits Are Made 

By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
454 words 
12 May 1994
The Wall Street Journal 
PAGE B3 
English
(Copyright (c) 1994, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.) 

TOKYO -- The best way to make sophisticated, high-density computer chips may one day be to grow them. 

Physicists at Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. said they have discovered how to control a semiconductor material that naturally "grows" orderly rows of tiny box-like structures, a finding that holds the potential to transform the way integrated circuits are manufactured. 

Most immediately, such "quantum dots" could be adapted as highly efficient amplifiers for semiconductor lasers, which are used in optical communications systems and in the heads of compact-disk players. Over the long term, however, the NTT work could also lead to ways to simply grow a variety of minuscule electronic components instead of etching them into semiconductor crystals with conventional techniques. 

The work is reported in today's edition of the British scientific journal Nature. 

Over the past several years, researchers in microelectronics have grown increasingly interested in "nanofabrication," or atomic-scale manufacturing, as a way of packing ever more transistors onto the same thumbnail-sized slivers of silicon or gallium arsenide. 

So far, however, nanofabrication remains a basic science -- and an excruciatingly slow and difficult one. For instance, a researcher might carve the surface of a gallium arsenide wafer with an electron beam to create fine "wires" and "dots" roughly a ten-millionth of a meter wide. Such etching not only takes a long time, it also frequently damages the material under study, degrading its ability to conduct electrical current. 

That's why the NTT team, led by visiting German physicist Richard Noetzel, decided to try encouraging gallium arsenide crystals to grow their own nanostructures. While other researchers had grown wires and dots on crystal surfaces "prepatterned" by preliminary etching, Dr. Noetzel's group decided to avoid such techniques. Totally natural growth, the scientists thought, would be easier and faster, and also much less likely to damage the underlying crystal structure. 

When the NTT group condensed a heavy-metal vapor onto a specially prepared gallium arsenide crystal, the crystal grew a regularly spaced field of tiny, box-like microcrystals, each roughly one seven-millionth of a meter wide. By varying the composition of the gallium-arsenide crystal, the physicists found they could reliably control both the microcrystals' size and spacing. 

Dr. Noetzel thinks his quantum dots should find easy applications, but he still finds his team's success somewhat ironic, since for many years researchers viewed such microstructures as defects. "Previously, every time a pattern like this appeared, everyone tried to find ways to make it disappear again," he said. 

Document j000000020011029dq5c00cl5


More Like This

 Article 65 *******************    



Developments to Watch WHAT ARE LITTLE MOLECULES MADE OF? THIS MICROSCOPE KNOWS 

EDITED BY EMILY T. SMITH 
198 words 
20 June 1994
Business Week 
Pg. 171 
Vol. Number 3377 
English
Copyright 1994 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Scientists trying to look at some of nature's smallest objects have had to make a tough choice: They can use an atomic force microscope (AFM) to see molecules and even atoms--but not their chemical composition. Or they can use nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging to see inside much larger objects and materials to determine their makeup. 

This either-or game may soon be over: Research manager Daniel Rugar at IBM's Almaden Research Center has developed a hybrid ``magnetic resonance force microscope'' that can both image and analyze the chemical makeup of molecules as small as 2.6 microns wide--1/50 the width of a human hair. That's 100 times better than NMR. The device uses NMR to make the nuclei of atoms in a sample vibrate. The vibration reveals the structure and makeup of the molecules. Rugar hopes to improve the microscope's resolution so that single atoms could be analyzed. The MRF has commercial potential as a tool to help develop more precise drugs and to control more precisely materials used to make computer chips. 

Document bw00000020011028dq6k001p5


More Like This

 Article 66 *******************    



Special Report WONDER CHIPS --- HOW THEY'LL MAKE COMPUTING POWER ULTRAFAST AND ULTRACHEAP 

Otis Port in New York, with Neil Gross in Tokyo, Robert Hof in San Francisco, and Gary McWilliams in Boston 
3,843 words 
4 July 1994
Business Week 
Pg. 86 
Vol. Number 3379 
English
Copyright 1994 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

They've just rolled that old PC out of your office and brought in your new toy--the latest model based on Intel Corp.'s jazzy new 100-megahertz Pentium microprocessor. It is, you have to admit, a pretty amazing piece of work. There, in a $4,000 box, sits the processing power of a 1988-vintage Cray Y-MP supercomputer from Cray Research Inc.--plus a lot of neat stuff that big systems never had, including a CD-ROM disk drive and stereo speakers. 

What gives your Pentium PC--or a new Macintosh based on the PowerPC chip from Motorola Inc.--such amazing power is the culmination of decades of progress in the science of chipmaking. The microprocessors and memory chips that make these machines multimedia marvels are the latest proof of what's known as Moore's Law. Intel Chairman Gordon E. Moore observed 30 years ago that, by shrinking the size of the tiny lines that form transistor circuits in silicon by roughly 10% a year, chipmakers unleash a new generation of chips every three years--with four times as many transistors. In memory chips, this has quadrupled the capacity of dynamic random-access memories (DRAMs) every three years. In microprocessors, the addition of new circuits--and the speed boost that comes from reducing the distance between them--has improved performance by four or five times every three years since Intel launched its X86 family in 1979. 

After a dozen generations of such multiplication, chip performance has snowballed into today's mind-blowing speeds and capacities. And what's astounding is that the cost of this ever-increasing performance is forever going down. Take a 486-class personal computer, the kind you can pick up at the local warehouse club. Among the microprocessor and DRAMs and the other chips inside it, you get roughly 100 million transistors that pack the wallop of an IBM 3090 mainframe from 1985. Yet the PC costs less than $1,000. You can't buy 100 million of anything else for so little. That many sheets of toilet paper would run more than $100,000. This miracle of economics--``free'' computing power--created the PC revolution and totally changed the electronics industry. 

But the revolution has barely started. Compared with what's coming, the miracles that chipmakers have so far delivered like clockwork will seem like child's play. The compounding effect of Moore's Law has now brought semiconductors to the brink of a series of leaps that within a decade will yield by far the most powerful computers ever--and profoundly affect scores of other electronic products as well, ranging from mainframe-caliber telephones to intelligent TVs. The results will, over the next 20 years, change many aspects of everyday life. 

Call it gigachip technology--chips with a billion minute transistors connected by a maze of circuitry. The capacity of memory chips has already climbed from 1 million bits to 16 megabits since 1985, or from 30 pages of typed text to 500. But by 2005, a memory chip should hold 4 billion bits (gigabits). That's almost as much as all the text in two sets of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. And when 64-gigabit memories arrive around 2011, they'll store a small library: 27 Britannicas. 

Moreover, the ability to lay a billion transistors on a chip will yield killer microprocessors. As the transistor count on microchips has climbed from 2,300 in 1971 to a few million today, the microprocessor has breezed past the minicomputer and the mainframe. Today, Digital Equipment Corp.'s Alpha chip is even faster than the processor in a Cray Y-MP. ``And we don't see anything slowing down these trends,'' says Richard J. Hollingsworth, DEC's manager of advanced semiconductor development. Gigaprocessors, he adds, ``will allow you to do things never thought of before.'' 

Like what? Personal Crays could, for instance, run any software, regardless of which type of computer it was written for. In other words, a single desktop machine in 2002 may be able to emulate any desktop ever built. If you like the interface of a Macintosh but prefer the spreadsheet-handling of Lotus 1-2-3 on a PC, you'll be able to have your cake and eat it, too. Similarly, gigachips would have enough transistors to play multiple roles and turn a computer printer into, say, a copier-fax-modem-printer. So companies that have carved out niche markets could face new competitors, big and small. POSITIVE SHRINKING. Starting around 2005, second- and third-generation gigachip technology will stuff unprecedented combinations of computing hardware into miniature boxes. The great-grandkids of today's primitive personal digital assistants, for example, may fuse mainframe power, a cellular videophone, and a wireless fax-modem in a flip-open housing the size of a deck of cards. They'll be cheap enough that every purse and briefcase will have one for hopping on the Information Superhighway--to keep up with Wall Street, home, and the office. And order-taking phone systems that now mechanically intone, ``Press 1 for information...'' could get smart enough to understand spoken questions--and answer so articulately that it will be tough to tell if you're talking to hardware or fellow ``wetware.'' 

There will be lots more wonders. Smart TVs will keep track of your viewing preferences and suggest new programs, so you needn't surf through 500 channels. Libraries will house digital books that update themselves by using the global Internet to communicate with other libraries and databases that cover the latest developments in science, the arts, and business. BETTER BRAINS. Ultimately, gigabit technology could even lead to silicon brains at least as intelligent as humans. ``The potential of the computer is way, way beyond human potential,'' says Hugo de Garis, a researcher who last year moved to the Human Information Processing Research Lab in Kyoto, Japan. The human brain has about 10 quadrillion synapses, or connections between neurons, adds de Garis, ``but this is trivial'' next to the computer he plans to build. It would have billions of times more silicon ``synapses,'' each far faster than the brain's. 

All this and more will be possible-- once process engineers nail down methods for cranking out gigachips economically. Getting to the first gigabit generation in 2002 will require only evolutionary improvements in production equipment, but it will take some groundbreaking new technology to go much further. Around 2005, chipmakers will hit the limit of light's ability to print microscopic lines on silicon. To make smaller transistors, they'll have to perfect ways to do the job with X-rays or electron beams. 

Neither approach will be cheap. That's why chip producers also will be going all-out to trim the costs of wafer-fabrication plants--the hermetically sealed factories where chips are etched in saucer-size silicon disks known as wafers. If a wafer fab's price hits $2 billion by 2000, as expected, chip prices may have to increase faster than performance--reversing the effects of Moore's Law. The semiconductor industry would do almost anything to avoid that (page 90). 

In the meantime, researchers aren't waiting to dream up ways to use gigachip power. Computer scientists, for example, are pursuing completely new kinds of software. Already emerging are such glimmers as ``evolutionary'' programs and genetic algorithms that improve themselves with age and intelligent software agents that roam the electronic globe hunting down answers to questions both practical and profound--from ``What's the cheapest fare I can get to Seattle?'' to ``What is a quark?'' 

Scientists believe these and other onetime fantasies will become reality over the next two decades, triggering upheavals in business and society. ``People don't realize how fast these things are going to come,'' says Thomas N. Theis, manager of semiconductor physics research at IBM's Research Div. 

If silicon becomes as pervasive and as smart as researchers envision, the workplace may undergo changes that could make today's downsizings seem trivial. ``We're going to have a big impact on industry--essentially decentralizing it,'' predicts Mark C. Melliar-Smith, chief technical officer of AT&T Microelectronics, the telecom giant's chipmaking arm. 

The reason: Networks of $1,500 computers with the powers of today's $15 million supercomputers will make it possible to do almost any white-collar task anywhere. The costly technologies now found only at headquarters, such as video-conferencing systems, will become standard features in all PCs. ``We'll squeeze it onto one chip, and it'll become a consumer product,'' says Melliar-Smith. Then there will be no economic rationale to maintain large central offices. And that will change the nature of management. 

Such transformations are going to sweep through other institutions as well. D. Raj Reddy, dean of Carnegie Mellon University's Computer Science School, worries about the education system's ability to prepare itself, let alone students, for the new world. ``There's a fair chance that the university as we know it will cease to exist in 50 years,'' muses Reddy. 

Restructuring will hit especially hard in the electronics industry, says Dean E. Eastman, a vice-president at IBM's Research Div. Apart from the Japanese giants, only a few makers of computers and other electronics gear--IBM, DEC, Hewlett-Packard, and Siemens--actually produce their own chips today. And it's almost certain that even fewer will do so in the future, given the staggering costs of semiconductor plants. 

That could pose serious challenges for builders of electronics systems: Gigachips won't be just components in a product--they'll be a product searching for a box. Chips already represent as much as 75% of the hardware value in some computers, and that will rise. ``With more and more value heading for the silicon,'' says Michael J. Attardo, the IBM senior vice-president who runs Big Blue's microelectronics business, everyone else is going to get squeezed. ``Margins are going to get tighter,'' says Jan C. Silverman, advanced technologies marketing manager at Hewlett-Packard Co. NOT JUST INTEL INSIDE. At the same time, gigachip technology could undo Intel's near-monopoly. Because a gigachip will have enough transistors to accommodate the guts of multiple microprocessors, it will be possible to create a high-performance chip that uses just a bit of its silicon to emulate the old Intel chips and, therefore, remain compatible with existing software while offering far better performance. 

Developing such a chameleon chip for all the major non-Intel designs is the goal of the Open Microprocessor Systems Initiative (OMI), a $270 million European Commission project involving 40 teams from 100-odd companies and university labs. OMI's initial focus is a reduced instruction-set computing (RISC) chip able to run software designed for a half-dozen microprocessors, including the Motorola/IBM PowerPC, Sun Microsystems' Sparc design, Advanced RISC Machines' ARM chip, and the Transputer chip from SGS-Thomson's Inmos Div. But it wouldn't take much to empower chameleon chips to act as Intel microprocessors as well and to run standard PC software. 

Intel, of course, isn't going to take this lying down. Recently, for example, it joined forces with HP to develop a hybrid chip that will lift the technologies of both Intel's X86 family and HP's RISC design to new levels of performance. And Intel's next-century chips could offer their own emulations of rival designs. 

Ultimately, the market for top-end microprocessors might plateau--not because of the overwhelming powers of gigachips but because of something called ``ubiquitous computing.'' It is a concept envisioned by Mark Weiser, manager of the computer science lab at Xerox Corp.'s Palo Alto Research Center (PARC). With information networks everywhere and devices such as dirt-cheap telecomputer tablets, conventional forms of PCs will be largely passe, Weiser believes. With every networked computer in the world on call, you could just scribble what you want on a digital pad, and the request will zip into the network and search out a suitable computer. Most of the overhead would be in the network, so the digipads scattered around the office and home could use past-generation silicon, making them as cheap as pocket calculators. 

Indeed, in the gigachip era, today's megachips, including Pentium, will be commodities. That will make ubiquitous computing practical. For example, PARC is experimenting with ``active badges,'' a plastic card with a built-in transmitter. At PARC, these constantly relay signals to sensors in the ceiling, so that Weiser's assistant can pinpoint his location on a floor plan in an emergency. In an on-line world, this concept could reach everywhere--including the home. AT&T Bell Laboratories already has a prototype of HumaNet, where a futuristic living room is studded with ceiling sensors and equipped with remote- controlled gadgets, including a TV wall. And everything responds to verbal commands. 

That points up another major trend in gigachip computing: Making machines easy to use by endowing them with humanlike senses--fluid speech, a good ear, keen vision. IBM calls the concept ``natural computing'' and has set up a separate unit to tackle near-term applications, including speech recognition in the first models of its upcoming Power Personal Systems line of PCs. ENORMOUS JOB. The idea is to end technological tyranny for good: Machines will no longer dictate how people must use them, but instead adapt to each user. If you don't like using a mouse, you could point to an icon on the screen to start your spreadsheet. Building computers that people can deal with almost as naturally as with another person is essential if the Information Superhighway is to be as publicly usable as the telephone system. It'll be an enormous programming job, says Larry Raviner, director of information principles research at Bell Labs. But when it's done, ``the whole world is going to change.'' 

The first barrier to fall may be speech-recognition. ``We've been working on speech for 20 years,'' says Michael L. Dertouzos, director of Massachusetts Institute of Technology's computer science lab, ``and it's finally bearing fruit.'' In 10 years, even handheld computers will understand ordinary speech--and 15 years hence, predicts AT&T's Melliar-Smith, a pocket computerphone will instantaneously translate conversations between people speaking different languages. Today, he adds, it takes a file-cabinet-size translation system to manage a few hundred words. 

But those tricks of the software engineer's art won't be possible unless the semiconductor industry clears its own near-term hurdle: the end of optical lithography. Since Silicon Valley's earliest days, chips have been printed the same way as photos: by shining light through a negative, or mask. At first it was visible light, but lately it's been with more precise ultraviolet (UV) light. Last year, SVG Lithography Systems Inc., a division of Silicon Valley Group Inc. in San Jose, Calif., unveiled equipment that uses UV light to print 0.35-micron lines, which soon will be the industry standard for producing 64-megabit DRAMs. 

The key to stretching optical lithography into the next century is ``deep-UV'' light. Emitted by an excimer, or pulsing, laser, deep-UV light could print lines as skinny as 0.15 micron. That's sufficient, says Hisashi Hara, general manager of an advanced-technology lab at Toshiba Corp., to produce 1-gigabit chips. It's doubtful that optical methods can go beyond this, although Shoichiro Yoshida, executive vice-president of Nikon Corp., the leading supplier of lithographic systems, hints that novel light-emitting materials might do the trick. ``There are some possibilities,'' he says, ``but I can't discuss them.'' 

Still, nobody believes that optical technology will work beyond the 4-gigabit level, which is expected to be reached in 2005. Something else will be required to produce 0.1-micron features. That's so teensy that if such transistors were silicon pearls, you would need a string of 2,500 of them to circle a human hair. 

The most promising candidate is electron beams. Theoretically, an E-beam system can produce lines as wispy as 0.02 microns wide, which would take chipmakers beyond 2025--to chips with trillions of transistors. The hangup is that E-beams write circuit lines with what amounts to a high-tech quill pen. Since a 256-megabit DRAM's circuitry will be equivalent to a street map of the entire world, ``you can do only one wafer per hour'' with an E-beam, says Masao Fukuma, senior manager of NEC Corp.'s Microelectronics Research Lab. CATCHING HEAT. That's far short of today's output of 60 wafers an hour. Cornell University's National Nanofabrication Facility is working with IBM on a system that uses a grid of E-beam emitters to write the same pattern on multiple chips simultaneously. NNF Director Harold Craighead believes this process could etch 50 wafers an hour. ``We're getting encouraging results,'' he says, ``but we're many years from a prototype production tool.'' 

Around 2011 comes the real make-or-break point, when transistors are expected to dive below 0.1 microns. These little critters would switch on and off so fast they'd generate enough heat to melt holes in the silicon unless the chips are cooled with a refrigeration system. So either computers will grow big again, which would boost costs and slash market potential, or chipmakers will have to switch to a totally new breed of microswitch--ultratiny quantum transistors. 

These would exploit the weird world of quantum dynamics, where electrons become waves that defy the laws of standard physics, enabling one quantum transistor to do the work of several. ``That's what's neat about quantum transistors,'' says Mark A. Reed, a professor of electrical engineering at Yale University. By swapping a quantum device for several ordinary transistors, circuit density--and heat--could be reduced enough to avoid the need for refrigeration. TERA FIRMWARE. Fujitsu, Hitachi, and Texas Instruments are among the chipmakers making strides in quantum electronics. Late last year, TI unveiled an experimental circuit with 17 quantum transistors that do the work of 40 conventional devices. If it all works out, 16-trillion-bit (terabit) memory chips are conceivable by the mid-to-late 2020s. One such monster would hold 6,667 sets of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. 

On the other hand, researchers admit, it's also conceivable that quantum chips won't ever be economical for mass-market products. In that event, the saga of the incredible shrinking transistor might finally end in the 2010s. 

Even so, gigachips will by then have unleashed such an explosion of cheap computing power that the world will never be the same. In addition to artificial speech, artificial vision is coming. Today's approach is limited because it requires a computer to identify an image by comparing it against a library of stored images. But new research promises machine-vision systems as versatile as the eye-brain biosystem. 

For Steven Shafer, director of Carnegie Mellon University's Calibrated Imaging Lab, the key is a deeper understanding of the physics of perception: How the brain analyzes texture, color, and reflectivity to extract meaning from all the visual data that assault our eyes. That's why his lab is crammed floor-to-ceiling with objects of different shapes, textures, and colors. 

Shafer conceived the first physics-based theory for machine vision, called the Dichromatic Reflection Model, in 1984, and it's used in the self-steering vehicle that CMU built for the Pentagon. But Shafer figures he's still a decade from his ultimate goal: ``A computer that can identify objects when it doesn't have any notion of what it's looking at.'' 

Meanwhile, machines will begin getting perhaps the most valuable sense of all: common sense. The trouble with computers is that they take everything so literally. Send a note to the company librarian asking for data on the ``plasitics'' industry, and you'll no doubt get what you want. Put the same request to a computer database, and it probably will find nothing. To make computers less ``brittle,'' a team led by Douglas B. Lenat, an artificial-intelligence pioneer at Microelectronics & Computer Technology Corp., the Austin (Tex.)-based electronics industry consortium, has been stuffing a database with everyday knowledge--not the facts that fill encyclopedias, but the grounding you need to comprehend what an encyclopedia says. Lenat expects to launch the first commonsense software product next year. 

When all these artificial senses get combined in gigachip systems, computers a decade from now may become as adept as people at interpreting ambiguous instructions and dealing with uncertainty. Augmenting these capabilities with software agents, evolutionary software, and other AI technology could make it possible to automate many white-collar jobs. Agents can learn a person's habits and routines, then carry out the tasks on their own. The first generation isn't all that intelligent. But with gigachip power, a future agent that you repeatedly dispatch to fetch on-line news about China might decide to explore the network and look for other sources of data that have escaped your notice. 

Somewhere down the line, perhaps as early as the first decade of the 21st century, the number of transistors on a cluster of chips will reach a critical mass that would make so-called emergent behavior inevitable. That's the inherent tendency of any dynamic system, given sufficient complexity, to begin exhibiting self-organization and rudimentary intelligence. It might happen spontaneously, but probably it will be by design. A dozen research groups in the U.S. and Europe are intent on fashioning silicon brains more powerful than the human version. One team, the Brain Builder Group, was founded early last year by de Garis at the Human Information Processing Research Lab, part of Japan's Advanced Telecommunications Research Institute. In collaboration with Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.'s nanoelectronics lab, he hopes to create a superior silicon brain ``within 10 years.'' 

For now, superhuman silicon brains remain science fiction. But the rest of these gee-whiz developments are pretty sure bets. Chips with the required power will almost certainly be produced over the next decade or so. So when you log onto a network to join a virtual work team in 2010, you may not be able to tell which co-workers are flesh-and-blood and which are silicon. Computers can't get any friendlier than that. 

Illustration: Chart: Why Smaller Means Bigger ILLUSTRATED CHART BY LAUREL DAUNIS Photograph: ULTRAPOWERFUL CHIPS WILL HELP CARNEGIE MELLON'S SHAFER BUILD A COMPUTER THAT CAN `SEE' AND DISTINGUISH SHAPES CHRIS USHER Photograph: HOLLINGSWORTH AND WAFER: GIGA-CHIPS `WILL ALLOW YOU TO DO THINGS NEVER THOUGHT OF BEFORE' PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD SCHULTZ 


Document bw00000020011028dq74001zd


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 67 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

MIX BUCKYBALLS AND GAS-- AND PRESTO! DIAMOND FILM 

EDITED BY EMILY T. SMITH 
207 words 
15 August 1994
Business Week 
99 
Number 3385 
English
(Copyright 1994 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Dieter M. Gruen is practicing his own kind of alchemy: transforming soot quickly into diamond films. Today, supertough diamond films are used sparingly: mainly to coat machine tools that cut aluminum-silicon alloys--the strong, lightweight materials used in cars. That's because a diamond film, a lattice of carbon atoms, is usually produced by a time- and energy-intensive process of stripping hydrogen atoms from carbon-containing methane gas. Inevitably, hydrogen ends up in the film, leading to defects. 

To make his films, Gruen, a scientist at Argonne National Laboratory, uses pure soot: buckyballs, which contain 60 carbon atoms arranged in a hollow sphere. Microwaves excite a mixture of vaporized argon gas containing buckyballs. The liberated carbon atoms are then deposited in a thin, hydrogen-free film. The new process can produce films two to four times as fast as earlier methods, slashing production costs up to 50%, says Gruen. That could open up new uses for diamond films--to absorb heat from computer chips or serve as coatings for computer hard drives, for instance. Gruen says two electronics companies are negotiating research deals with Argonne to develop the films. 

Document bw00000020011028dq8f002vy


More Like This

 Article 68 *******************    



Science & Technology 

FANTASTIC JOURNEYS IN VIRTUAL LABS Computers are picking up where the imagination leaves off 

Russell Mitchell in San Francisco, with Otis Port in New York 
3,220 words 
19 September 1994
Business Week 
76 
Number 3390 
English
(Copyright 1994 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

``Every great advance in science has issued from a new audacity of imagination.'' 

Philosopher John Dewey's observation rings as true today as it did a half-century ago. Trouble is, science has gotten so complex since then that only a handful of geniuses can muster the imagination needed to cope with many of its concepts. Take the notion of cosmic strings. This theory proposes that the fundamental building blocks of matter are infinitesimally thin but enormously long threads of energy. In diameter, they're mere billionths the size of an electron. Yet they stretch across vast cosmological distances and into several ``higher dimensions'' beyond length, width, depth, and time. The vibrations of these strings supposedly tickle zillions of atomic particles--and thus the universe--into being. 

If this weirdness boggles your mind, take heart: Even scientists have trouble conjuring something so alien to everyday life. But mathematics can. An equation describing a 10-dimensional space filled with pulsating spaghetti is no less concrete than 2+2=4. And what math can describe, computers can bring to life on a video screen. That's why ``doing science'' on computers--call it digital science--is fast becoming as indispensable as imagination. 

In fact, digital science marks the most fundamental change in scientific methodology since Isaac Newton laid the foundations 350 years ago. Michael Warren, a physicist at Los Alamos National Laboratory, terms it ``the transcendent technology of our time.'' Yet that accolade barely hints at its profound implications for business and society. Digital scientists have the temerity to envision a time, not far distant, when computers will help reengineer almost anything in Mother Nature's pantry. If you need a drug or a polymer or a metal that has never existed before, tomorrow's supercomputers would calculate whether electrons, protons, and neutrons could be assembled to yield the desired properties--and sketch on a screen how it might be done. TIME WARPS. Such potential is rapidly putting computers at the cusp of all scientific endeavors. While the machines long ago became vital research tools, they mainly revealed the secrets of nature in mind-numbing printouts of numbers. Digital science is better partly because sight is by far the best human sense for exploring ideas. Being able to interact visually with a simulated experiment helps amplify intuition and creativity, says Robert Langridge, a biologist at the University of California at San Francisco. As a result, ordinary researchers have a better shot at making extraordinary discoveries. 

Even more significant, digital science opens vast new horizons to scientific inquiry--many beyond the scope of any real-world laboratory. ``A lot of things are possible now that weren't before,'' says Marvin L. Cohen, a theoretical physicist at the University of California at Berkeley. 

Warping time is one example. Astrophysicists can scoop up enough cosmic dust to create a star, watch it wink to life, burn for billions of years, then flare into a supernova--all in minutes. At the opposite extreme, Scripps Institute of Oceanography researcher Charles Brooks has stretched an eyeblink into a workday. To get a handle on how the mysterious ``unfolding'' activity of proteins affects their function in the body, he split 1.5 billionths of a second of action into 750,000 images--enough for a seven-hour video. 

There's almost no end to the new types of experiments digital science can do. At New York University, a three-dimensional model of a human heart--beating inside a Cray C90 supercomputer 365 miles away--uses mathematical muscles to pump digital blood. Before NYU medical researchers Charles S. Peskin and David McQueen had access to the Cray at the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, the simulation wasn't feasible. Even now, producing each heartbeat takes hours of number-crunching. But with their heart, which won the 1994 Breakthrough Computational Science award from the Smithsonian Institution and Computerworld magazine, Peskin and McQueen can probe for cardiovascular cures in ways that would otherwise be impossible. 

In the same manner, biochemists at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill can tug the molecule of a potential anticancer drug to a so-called receptor site on a protein, then twist and turn it to see if there's a tight ``fit,'' or bonding force, which determines whether the drug can be effective. A scientist actually feels the strength of the bonding force in the mechanical arm used to steer the molecule. 

At Australia's Monash University, researchers last summer used similar tools to develop a ``designer'' molecule that seems to disable flu viruses--permanently. The trouble with flu bugs is that they mutate and quickly develop resistance to drugs. So scientists are forever developing new vaccines. But viruses may not be able to overcome the Australian antidote because it attaches itself to a mutation-resistant receptor on the virus and prevents it from reproducing. A perpetual flu shot could be a billion-dollar blockbuster for Glaxo Holdings, the drugmaker that sponsored the research. Glaxo launched human trials early this year. 

Such near-omnipotent power is fanning a new spirit of adventure in research and engineering: It's encouraging people to tackle projects that used to be too risky or daunting. The upshot, many scientists believe, is that digital science is crucial to any nation that aspires to do world-class research--and to harvest that knowledge for the seeds of tomorrow's high-tech industries. ``It's a universal tool that touches every part of science,'' says Malvin H. Kalos, director of Cornell University's Theory Center. CAD CATS. Materials scientists on the trail of future microchips at AT&T Bell Laboratories, for example, can now gain fresh insights by doing a takeoff on Honey, I Shrunk the Kids: They dive into a silicon crystal to watch electrons whizzing through semiconductor circuits. In pursuit of more efficient engines, Detroit researchers can climb inside and inspect how gasoline gets dispersed into tiny droplets before igniting. Adolf Coors Co. uses digital models in its search for lighter beer cans. DuPont Co. even simulates disposable diapers, seeking to make them more absorbent. And Caterpillar Inc. saves hundreds of thousands of dollars by using digital prototypes to test designs for earth-moving equipment. Says Donald R. Krull, Cat's head of product research: ``Every industry is going to end up doing this.'' 

That's particularly true now that digital science doesn't always require a supercomputer. At Xerox Corp.'s Palo Alto Research Center (PARC), scientist Ralph Merkle runs his experiments on a workstation. He's exploring nanotechnology--building molecular machines by laying atom on atom like a bricklayer putting up a house. Thanks to desktops with the muscle of yesterday's Crays, he says, ``we're seeing a democratization and mass spread'' of digital science. 

Like many technologies, digital science won its first stripes with the Pentagon. After World War II, Washington plowed billions into computers and software to support code-breakers and designers of high-tech weapons. In the process, the feds spawned the supercomputer industry, high-speed data communications, and computer networking. Many software packages now used by industry also have Pentagon ancestry. For instance, auto makers crash-test cars in computer simulations using a program based on Dyna-3D, which was written to ensure that an Air Force bomber's nuclear eggs wouldn't crack open if the plane crashed. 

Until the late 1980s, most scientists outside the defense establishment could only look on with envy. Martin Karplus, a Harvard University theoretical chemist, recalls having to cadge time at night on a hospital's computer. And Larry L. Smarr, an astrophysicist at the University of Illinois, had to hop to Germany and borrow time on a Cray at the Max Planck Institut. 

Smarr soon got fed up and joined mathematician Kenneth G. Wilson, a 1982 Nobel laureate then at Cornell, to lead a lobbying campaign in Washington. It culminated in 1985, when the National Science Foundation got $200 million to create four national supercomputer centers and a nationwide datacommunications system, the NSFnet, to link the centers to three dozen universities. All told, the NSF and its university, state, and 88 industrial collaborators have invested close to $1 billion in these centers. And the money keeps rolling in. In 1991, President Bush signed the High Performance Computing & Communications Act (HPCC), a five-year initiative that is authorized to spend $1 billion in fiscal 1994. 

By 1996, the curtain will rise on the next act--a new type of supercomputer dubbed ``teraops.'' At peak speed, these machines will chew through at least a trillion operations per second, or teraops--10 to 50 times as many as today's best number-crunchers. Such fantastic speeds are essential for tackling so-called Grand Challenge problems. These are the knottiest puzzles facing science, such as developing fusion-energy reactors and understanding the global climate (table, page 76). 

To bypass an inherent speed limitation in traditional computers, teraops machines will be based on massively parallel processing (MPP), a technology pioneered by Thinking Machines, nCube, Intel Supercomputer Systems, and others. MPP systems have dozens to thousands of microprocessor chips that each pack the raw speed of an older Cray. ``We need MPP speeds because we want to model an oil spill in real time, not get the results after several days and then go check to see if the model was right,'' says Frank L. Gilfeather, a professor of mathematics at the University of New Mexico and a co-designer of the new Maui High Performance Computing Center (page 84). ``We want to predict what's going to happen--in time to go out and take preventive action.'' 

At expected prices of up to $50 million, not many teraops machines will be installed before the turn of the century. But scientists attacking priority problems will have no trouble gaining access to one--wherever it may be. The NSFnet has evolved into the backbone of the Internet, and it now has links to 1,000 colleges plus an increasing number of fee-paying corporate sites. 

Keeping the data humming to and from teraops computers will require the fast lanes of the Information Superhighway. These will be gigabit links, capable of pumping data by the billions of bits per second. Most of today's data pipelines top out at only 45 million bits per second, but MCI Communications Corp. is already installing a 2.5-gigabit network. That's enough to transmit all the text in the Encyclopaedia Brittanica in one second. GIGABIT PLAYERS. Such speeds should also boost on-line collaborations, with scientists ganging up on complex problems in virtual labs that exist nowhere yet anywhere. Before the NSFnet was turned on in 1986, it was unusual for multidisciplinary teams to include researchers from more than one institution. Today, it's common--which means that research projects are tapping the best scientific brains in the world. Gigabit links will bring a major new dimension to on-line science. They'll enable biologists, chemists, and biophysicists in Austin, Boston, and Bonn to watch the progress of a digital experiment in all three places at once. 

Gigabit networks also will have enough two-way capacity for remote experimentation. Researchers will thus be able to use the best piece of scientific equipment for the task, no matter where it's located. Ultimately, this could ``create a distributed laboratory across this country,'' says Dr. Judith L. Vaitukaitis, director of the National Center for Research Resources at the National Institutes of Health. The outlines of this virtual lab are starting to take shape. The University of California at San Diego's medical school is experimenting with remote access to its high-voltage-transmission electron microscope--one of only six available to U.S. biologists. Now, a neuroscientist at the University of Tennessee can dial up the San Diego instrument to peer at 3-D images of brain cells. 

At first, the heavy reliance on computers and mathematical models made many scientists nervous. Computer simulations are, after all, approximations. If a scientist really needed a model based on fundamental forces such as quantum chromodynamics and quantum mechanics--which, respectively, describe how quarks assemble into protons and neutrons and how electrons behave when orbiting an atom's nucleus--the simulation would be restricted to 10 or so atoms. Any more and even today's biggest supercomputer gags. So scientists devise clever shortcuts, judiciously omitting certain details. ``That's where the art is,'' says Ralph Z. Roskies, co-director of the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center. For example, digital imitations of the solar system treat the planets as monolithic bodies, not megamasses of atoms. And climatologists studying how the oceans influence weather patterns may ignore the sunlight reflected by clouds to squeeze in more data on ocean currents. 

Juggling this so-called granularity of computer models is a constant headache. Almost always, some degree of accuracy must be sacrificed to get the job done in a reasonable time. Take the National Weather Service's 24-hour forecasts. These used to stem from a model that covered the U.S. with boxes 75 kilometers square. Inside these boxes, the weather was assumed to be uniform. Meteorologists knew this model's granularity was too coarse because thunderstorms and tornadoes could come and go in a cell unnoticed. But a finer grid would have taken so long to run that the weather could have arrived by the time the forecast was done. Earlier this year, the Weather Service upgraded from a Cray Y-MP to a faster Cray C90--and reduced the grid to 35-km-square boxes. Still, weather watchers are eagerly awaiting a teraops system. CLINCHER. Similarly, older Crays at NASA's Ames Research Center didn't have enough muscle to simulate the flow of hypersonic air over a plane's entire fuselage as it moved at several times the speed of sound. So, they had to piece together the results from various sections. With a new Cray C90, however, far more detailed and realistic simulations are possible. 

Such successes have gradually persuaded skeptics that digital science is for real. In 1989, Berkeley's Cohen predicted that carbon and nitrogen atoms arranged in a certain crystalline structure would be harder than a diamond. Scientists at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, Northwestern University, and Harvard then produced minute amounts of the new carbon-nitride material--though a process for fabricating commercial quantities has yet to be devised. 

Another clincher was an IBM experiment that provided the best proof so far of quantum chromodynamics, or QCD. The equations laying out this esoteric theory are so convoluted that IBM built a custom-designed MPP computer with 566 processors to crunch the QCD math at top speed. The machine ran continuously for a year before the results popped out in early 1993. Physicists were cheered when the answers confirmed most interpretations of experiments with particle accelerators. 

Just because a digital experiment works doesn't necessarily mean the results are valid. Computers can be used to model ``a lousy experiment or a lousy theory,'' says Robert J. Silbey, head of Massachusetts Institute of Technology's chemistry department. Until other researchers spot the errors, he concedes, ``we may go off in the wrong direction for a while.'' That's accepted within the culture of science. But it can present major problems when simulations are used to formulate public policy. For example, although climate models generally predict global warming, they contradict one another on details that would help decide what to do to counter the greenhouse effect. HOT TOPICS. Still, the incidence of lousy models should diminish as digital science permeates classrooms and produces more graduates with good simulation skills. Among the more advanced projects is the University of Washington's molecular biology program, headed by Leroy Hood and backed with $12 million from William H. Gates III, chairman of Microsoft Corp. Digital science has become ``essential and fundamental to biology,'' says Hood, for tracking down the connections between the estimated 50,000 to 100,000 human genes or determining how billions of neurons in the human brain interact to create thought and perception. 

That's true not just in biology. ``Complexity'' is one of the hot topics in contemporary science, and proponents believe it will turn reductionist science on its ear. Traditional science has groped for understanding by reducing complex systems to their simplest elements. But this often falls short of a complete explanation, especially when so-called emergent behavior is a factor. Many natural systems made up of simple entities--ant colonies are a good example--exhibit a capacity for self-organization that can't be explained by the characteristics of the individual members. Complexity theory aims to discover how self-organization comes about. 

If the secret is found, says John H. Holland, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, complexity simulations could one day serve as ``flight simulators for social policy''--helping government leaders navigate the waters of partisan politics to achieve the greatest good for the majority. 

That challenge may elude even teraops computers. But the next generation of supercomputers after them--petaops systems, which will spit out calculations by the quadrillions every second--should arrive early next century. Their work will be waiting. 


(available online)
                      DIGITAL SCIENCE'S
                      GRAND CHALLENGES
Nine Washington agencies are coordinating their digital science efforts
to solve 30-odd Grand Challenges--projects that are beyond the
capability of any single researcher or lab. Here's a sampling:
COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY Understand the components of human and other
genomes, and develop software for simulating biological structures.
Various projects are being sponsored by the Energy Dept., the National
Science Foundation, G.D. Searle, Carnegie Mellon University, and the
universities of Tennessee, Houston, and Illinois.
MATHEMATICAL COMBUSTION MODELING Apply computational fluid dynamics to
understand the combustion process, which may point to more
fuel-efficient car engines. Managed by the
Energy Dept.
QUANTUM CHROMODYNAMICS CALCULATIONS Model the physics of
elementary particles in atoms and crystalline lattices. Funded by the
Energy Dept. and the National Science
Foundation.
NUMERICAL TOKAMAK PROJECT Integrate particle- and fluid-plasma models
to guide development of fusion-energy reactors. Headed by the Energy
Dept.
FIRST PRINCIPLES SIMULATION OF MATERIALS Develop advanced techniques to
help discover new materials, using quantum chromodynamics and quantum
mechanics. Funded by the Energy Dept. A related project on atomic-level
simulations of materials is funded by the National Science Foundation
and headed by the California Institute of Technology.
GLOBAL CLIMATE MODELING Expand the theoretical basis for climate
dynamics, especially the role of oceans. Sponsored by the Energy Dept.
Related programs, focusing on weather forecasting and modeling the
dispersion of pollutants, are run by the National Oceanic & Atmospheric
Administration and the National Science Foundation.


Illustration: IN A FEW YEARS, SUPERCOMPUTERS HAVE EVOLVED TO THE POINT WHERE THEY CAN MODEL AN ENTIRE HYPERSONIC FUSELAGE AND THE STRESSES THAT BUFFET IT AT MACH 10 Photograph: NANO-LEGOS: AT XEROX' PARC, MERKLE IS BUILDING MOLECULAR MICROMACHINES ATOM BY ATOM ANDY FREEBERG Photograph: TICKER TECH: NYU'S PESKIN DEVELOPED A THREE-DIMENSIONAL HEART MODEL WHOSE EVERY BEAT TAKES HOURS OF NUMBER-CRUNCHING PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA BUCCI; (INSET) COURTESY OF THE PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTING CENTER 


Document bw00000020011028dq9j003pu


More Like This

 Article 69 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

HOW TO TEACH PLANTS TO FOOL FUNGI 

EDITED BY RUTH COXETER 
208 words 
10 October 1994
Business Week 
128 
Number 3393 
English
(Copyright 1994 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Farmers lose more than $1 billion a year when wind-borne rust fungi attack wheat, coffee, and other crops. Threadlike rust cells invade plants through tiny breathing pores called stomata, cutting crop yields by as much as half. Cornell University plant pathologists Harvey C. Hoch and Richard C. Staples speculated that the ridges surrounding the stomata signaled the fungi where plants were vulnerable. To test their hypothesis, they grew fungi on silicon wafers etched with different-size ridges by electron beams. ``It was a marriage of cell biology and nanotechnology,'' says Hoch. 

It turned out that fungi couldn't recognize stomata if the ridges were slightly taller or shorter than half a micron. The pair have identified the optimum ridge height that fungi can recognize for more than 30 crops. Efforts to discover plant varieties with stomata invisible to fungi have so far been unsuccessful. But Hoch thinks that introducing genes from plants that have ridges all over could confuse the fungi's sense of direction and leave a plant unharmed in its wake. Fungi could then be controlled by changing the architecture of, say, a leaf rather than zapping it with chemical sprays. 

Document bw00000020011028dqaa0022c


More Like This

 Article 70 *******************    



Science & Technology: Materials 

THE BIG SQUEEZE IN THE LAB How extreme pressure is creating exotic materials 

By Ruth Coxeter, with Peter Coy, in New York 
1,067 words 
13 February 1995
Business Week 
76 
Number 3411 
English
(Copyright 1995 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

In 1987, C.W. (Paul) Chu of the University of Houston was racing scientists from Moscow to Long Island for a breakthrough in high-temperature superconductivity. On a hunch, he prepared a bit of copper, barium, lanthanum, and oxygen smaller than a BB. Then he worked high-pressure alchemy, squeezing it under pressure 18,000 times as great as that at sea level. 

Bingo: When electrodes were plugged in to the blend, it conducted electricity with zero resistance. Chu then guessed he could achieve the same effect at ordinary pressure by substituting yttrium for lanthanum. The substitution worked--and earned Chu worldwide fame for a material that superconducted at a record high temperature: at -180C. 

Chu's work highlighted how extraordinarily high pressures can strong-arm elements into yielding their secrets. The high-pressure manufacture of synthetic diamond (by squeezing carbon) is already a near-billion-dollar industry. Today, researchers are using pressures exceeding those at the center of the earth to break and re-form chemical bonds in everything from hydrogen to beach sand. ``Even by a conservative estimate, we could triple the range of materials we now know just by squeezing them,'' says Robert M. Hazen, a research scientist with the Carnegie Institution's Geophysical Laboratory and author of a 1993 book on the topic, The New Alchemists. 

If gases can be compressed into stable metallic crystals they might superconduct even at room temperatures. Superhard glass made from silicon dioxide--or quartz--could serve as windshields for rockets. A metallic form of hydrogen could be an incredibly dense form of stored chemical energy. ``It would be something like 30 times more efficient than any existing rocket fuel,'' Hazen says. 

The laboratory equipment required to achieve these awesome pressures, a diamond anvil, is no more than 8 inches tall and can be screwed tight by hand. It works by amplifying arm power through gears and concentrating all of it into an extremely small area. That's done by placing a tiny sample between the tips of two cut diamonds. A plate with a hole in it corrals the sample. 

Research on such a small scale has big drawbacks. The products are too tiny--about a millionth of an ounce--to be useful for anything except research. Many materials revert to normal once the pressure is off. And high-pressure science can be hazardous. Having witnessed one explosion, David Mao and Russell Hemley of the Carnegie Institution now operate experiments from behind a steel wall. 

With real money probably years off, most work on exotic high-pressure materials is going on in universities, not companies. Cornell, Harvard, and the University of California at Berkeley have substantial programs. Three years ago, the National Science Foundation established a Center for High-Pressure Research, pooling efforts at the Carnegie Institution, Princeton, and the State University of New York at Stony Brook. HARD LUCK. High-pressure research got a jolt last May when 11 Russian and French researchers claimed in the journal Physics Letters that they had created a material harder than diamond from ``buckyballs,'' or carbon-60. But similar claims have arisen before, and some scientists argue that the samples were too small to be reliably tested. 

Squeezing materials does more than harden them. Compressing gases such as hydrogen liberates their electrons, turning them into excellent electrical conductors. Helium, ordinarily inert, will bond with nitrogen when sufficiently compressed. Oxygen is ordinarily colorless--but under extreme pressure it forms crystals with facets of red, yellow, and blue. UCLA professor of physical chemistry Malcolm F. Nicol speculates that sulfur crystals could store information, with different colors of light serving to write, erase, and read data. 

The quest for a superconducting metallic hydrogen is taking scientists into realms of pressure never experienced on earth--and into heated rivalries as well. Researchers at Harvard University and Carnegie Institution disagree over what happens to hydrogen at 1.5 million atmospheres, or megabars, at which point its molecules line up like watermelons. Carnegie brags it was the first to reach 2.5 megabars. No one has surpassed 3 megabars, where scientists speculate hydrogen becomes fully metallic and superconducting. The big question: Will metallic hydrogen remain metallic once the pressure is off? MICROPOPS. Commercialization is just one goal. High-pressure researchers also seek to understand the composition of stars and planets and the sources of earthquakes. UCLA's Nicol has even recreated conditions of the early earth to form chains of hydrogen cyanide, which he believes are precursors to DNA. One favorite for research is ikaite, a watery calcium compound. Its behavior under high temperature and pressure sheds light on how veins of gold, silver, and other ores are formed. Raymond Jeanloz, a physicist at UC Berkeley, and graduate student Charles Meade proposed a new seismic theory after pressurizing serpentine, a greenish, waxy mineral. A microphone attached to a diamond anvil picked up a popping sound--perhaps a miniature version of a quake that occurs when water is forced out of serpentine deep underground. 

Doubts about the commercial value of exotic high-pressure materials have kept away mainstream producers of synthetic diamonds, such as General Electric, Sumitomo, and De Beers. ``We're a materials supplier. Just creating high-pressure phases doesn't make you any money,'' says William F. Banholzer, manager of engineering for GE Superabrasives in Worthington, Ohio. But in labs like Paul Chu's, the big squeeze is paying off. Chu recently found a superconductor that he hopes could be produced in industrial quantities by depositing the materials in vapor form. That's the kind of advance that keeps the pressure on. 

HIGH-PRESSURE ALCHEMY 

I t's not just making diamonds from graphite: All kinds of ordinary materials take on startling characteristics when subjected to extremely high pressure. 

MATERIAL POTENTIAL USES HYDROGEN, OXYGEN Fuel cells, superconductors CARBON-60, OR BUCKYBALLS Coatings for computer disks, abrasives SILICON DIOXIDE Superhard glass, lightweight car components IKAITE Indicator of how mineral deposits form HELIUM NITRIDE Aid to research on inert gases DATA: CARNEGIE INSTITUTION, BUSINESS WEEK 

Photograph: PHASE SHIFT Ikaite, top, and three views of helium nitride under pressure PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF ROBERT M. HAZEN/CARNEGIE INSTITUTION Photograph: CRUNCH TIME: A DIAMOND ANVIL PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF ROBERT M. HAZEN/CARNEGIE INSTITUTION <tableintext> 


Document bw00000020011024dr2d000h4


More Like This

 Article 71 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

LURING FACTORIES TO LANDFILLS 

EDITED BY NEIL GROSS 
203 words 
6 March 1995
Business Week 
58 
Number 3414 
English
(Copyright 1995 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

NOBODY WANTS A GARBAGE dump in their backyard. But when it comes to luring industrial parks, communities compete aggressively with tax breaks. Playing on that, scientists at Stevens Institute of Technology are tackling the problem of solid waste by turning landfills into a new breed of industrial park. Manufacturers who locate there would get free energy and free raw materials in exchange for converting, say, discarded jars into glass fibers. These would be used to reinforce plastic composites made from scrap shampoo and soda bottles. 

The idea could solve a basic economic problem: If resources mined from a landfill have to be transported to remote factories and reprocessed using commercial power, ``then recycling just can't compete,'' says George P. Korfiatis, director of Stevens Institute's Environmental Engineering Center. Better to do it on the spot, using methane from decaying garbage for power. Stevens will build a $2.3 million pilot recycling center next to a landfill in New Jersey. It will also use molecular engineering to create new polymers that make it easier to manage the total life cycle of plastic products--currently more than one-third of all solid waste. 

Document bw00000020011024dr36000q6


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 72 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANOTECH TOOLS FOR TOMORROW'S TEENY ROBOTS 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
212 words 
1 May 1995
Business Week 
128 
Number 3422 
English
(Copyright 1995 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

A DECADE AFTER BIG BLUE'S 1981 invention of the scanning tunneling microscope, or STM, IBM researchers demonstrated that an STM's pointy tip can do more than just trace the contours of individual atoms. The microscope can also pick up and move separate atoms. And now, scientists at Cornell University have made an ultrasmall STM that could be the forerunner of minuscule machine tools for the nanotechnology era. 

Nanotech visionaries predict that tiny robots and computer circuits will one day be built atom by atom. Such molecular-scale robots could probe and repair DNA or hunt down cancer cells in the bloodstream. But today's STMs aren't practical production tools because the business end of the system, including the little motors that drive the tip, is about the size of your thumb. 

To make drastically smaller STMs--smaller than pinheads--Cornell's Noel C. MacDonald, a professor of electrical engineering, has harnessed the technology used in manufacturing semiconductors and built transistor-size silicon motors. So future silicon chips could be packed with batteries of STMs, turning chips into nanotech factories. Cornell is already working with TMS Technologies Inc. in Ithaca, N.Y., to license the technology. 

Document bw00000020011024dr51001b2


More Like This

 Article 73 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

TRUTH THAT'S STRANGER THAN FRICTION 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
211 words 
1 May 1995
Business Week 
128 
Number 3422 
English
(Copyright 1995 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

RESEARCHERS AT OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY HAVE MEAsured the friction of one atom rubbing against another--and it's not what textbooks say it should be. At the atomic level, explains Bharat Bhushan, head of OSU's microtribology work, the classical theory of friction doesn't hold up. So for tomorrow's nanotechnology products, which will get stitched together atom by atom, a new theory of friction will be necessary. A paper co-authored by Bhushan in the Apr. 13 Nature outlines the implications--not all of which are in the distant future. 

Within five years, Bhushan believes the new theory of friction could yield far smaller computer hard drives. His team has tested supersmooth aluminum surfaces, similar to the platters used in hard drives, that were lubricated with a film only one molecule thick. The film resisted abrasion 80 times better than predicted. Thus, a hard drive's read/write head could be reduced to a fraction of its current size and moved closer to the disk. This would decrease the size of the area needed to store bits of data, increasing capacity by as much as 400 times. 

Photograph: IT'S A DRAG: Graphite surface after abrasion 


Document bw00000020011024dr51001b3


More Like This

 Article 74 *******************    



"Show me a piece."(investing in technological advances; 1995 Money Guide: Technology) 

Philip Ross 
1,066 words 
19 June 1995
Forbes 
230 
Vol. 155, No. 13, ISSN: 0015-6914 
English
COPYRIGHT 1995 Forbes Inc. 

REMEMBER THE FUSS over high-temperature superconductors? They won a 1987 Nobel Prize for two IBM scientists. Then the talk started about what this discovery meant. Superconductors were going to change our lives by floating trains on magnetic fields and ferrying excess power from Canada to Florida without losing a watt to resistance. In early 1987 a weekly business magazine gushed about a revolution in the making, then cautioned that it "will probably be 1990 before full-fledged products show up." 

The turn of the decade came and went without any full-fledged superconductor products showing up. No semi-fledged ones, either. Only now are the first niche products coming on stream. Talk of multibillion-dollar markets has subsided. 

Investors who jump at the latest and most exciting scientific discoveries should listen to Rustum Roy, the founding director of Pennsylvania State University's Materials Research Laboratory. Roy, a 70-year-old native of India, worked on superconductors himself but remained skeptical about their prospects. "I have a simple test: Show me a piece," he says. 

Roy's second rule of thumb is publicity. "If it's really [commercially] interesting, would you talk about it?" he asks. "[Synthetic] diamonds were interesting in the 1950s, and General Electric kept the secret for years." 

Diamonds, in fact, offer a good example of how technological advance and investment success do not always go hand in hand. Synthetic diamonds cannot be brushed aside as scientifically intriguing but commercially useless, like such inventions as fullerenes (atomic cages made of carbon). Far from it: Diamonds, says Roy, are stupendously useful--"tops in every property-- hardness, transparency, conductivity of electricity and of heat, refraction of light." 

In 1993 Roy and his Penn State colleagues found a way to make industrial-grade diamond crystals at low pressure, using a microwave oven, powdered carbon and metal, and hydrogen gas. Their energy-saving process makes it potentially the biggest advance since GE's 1950s-era method, which requires very large presses. 

Roy got his share of gee-whiz headlines in the science sections. But he isn't trying to raise venture capital. 

The reason? Commercially, low-pressure diamonds have been a huge disappointment. "We cannot sell them," says Roy. The market for the most attainable stuff--diamond grit for industrial grinding--has collapsed. It seems that the Australians and the Russians discovered new diamond fields, and the Chinese invested heavily in the old, high-pressure synthetic method (whose labor- intensive nature makes it economical for them but not for us). As a result, the cheapest diamond grit has dropped from a dollar per carat in the mid-1980s to a measly 12 cents a carat now. 

As recently as 1990, many in the industry predicted the market for artificial diamonds would reach $5 billion to $10 billion by 2005. Roy says his own skeptical estimate was $1 billion--and now, five years later, he expects it to be lower still. "I was disappointed, too," he says. "But I was wrong in a smaller way than most others. I held my romantic impulses in check." 

Romantic impulses can take you a long way on Wall Street. Stanford Ovshinsky, founder of Energy Conversion Devices of Troy, Mich., has made a career of hyping new materials, especially amorphous silicon--which his company really does make into solar cells. When superconductivity fever hit in early 1987, Ovshinsky's company jumped on the bandwagon. "ECD has now demonstrated the ability to synthesize materials that can be essentially 100% superconducting," the company trumpeted. 

The stock jumped 11/4 points when that press release came out. Two months later, the company claimed it had achieved superconductivity at the stupendously high temperature of 9 degrees Fahrenheit, kicking up the stock another point. 

Where are the working pieces? The sales? Ovshinsky's company has discontinued research into high-temperature superconductors. 

Energy inventions never cease to dazzle gullible investors. In 

1989 two professors announced a process for cold fusion that promised to wring virtually limitless energy from seawater. Within three weeks, a key ingredient of the new process, palladium, had jumped 27%. Today there's still no demand for palladium from commercial fusion reactors. 

In 1988 Nucell, a subsidiary of Peripheral Systems, announced a technical development that would lead to miniature fission reactors--household power plants. That announcement helped push Peripheral's stock from 2 to 6. Where is desktop fission today? Nowhere. The stock was delisted three years ago. 

In 1980 the old Gulf & Western Co. made headlines with a new battery that G&W said would make the electric car economical. G&W's stock jumped 1 3/4 over the next 11 weeks. Fifteen years later, how many electric cars do you see on the streets? 

Mining a similar vein, Valence Technology pushed up its stock price from 8 in the spring of 1992 to 19 a year later by claiming that its lithium/polymer battery would cost less than the nickel/cadmium standard and outperform it in several ways (FORBES, Mar. 1, 1993). The battery is still in development. Valence's stock: a recent 2 1/2. 

Roy says other way-out science continues to get more respect than it deserves. He cites as an example biomimetics, which aims to reproduce the extraordinary properties of natural materials-- such as the spider's silk or the elephant's trunk--by copying their structures. Another example is nanotechnology, which in its most extreme form imagines bacteria-size "assemblers" that would build any product you desire atom by atom, at a cost no higher than that of the atoms themselves. Researchers are busy hustling venture capital to explore these fascinating fields. The next step would be a public stock offering to the kind of investors who liked 

Valence. Avoid investing, says Roy, until the big talkers have a working model. 

Don't get us wrong. Big money has been and will be made on Wall Street from technology. But it tends not to be the sort of technology that wins oohs and aahs from science journalists. Wal- Mart made a fortune by skillfully marrying inventory management systems to cash registers. No Nobel Prize there. 

Put it this way. If someone invents a slightly improved mousetrap, consider investing in it. If he invents an antigravity machine, stay away. 

illustration photograph 


Document fb00000020011025dr6j000nx


More Like This

 Article 75 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANO-NEEDLES TO TAILOR MOLECULES 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
220 words 
3 July 1995
Business Week 
81 
Number 3431 
English
(Copyright 1995 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

IMAGINE DIPPING AN ULTRAFINE QUILL PEN INTO PLATINUM ink, then using it to transform the chemical structure of individual molecules. In essence, that is what chemists at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Materials Sciences Div. have just done. Their feat signals the dawn of ``nanocatalysis''--a technology that could allow chemical reactions to be triggered molecule by molecule. 

Until now, most research in nanotechnology has centered on tracing the atomic surface of materials, using a new breed of microscope with a supersharp needle that can pick up the contours of atoms like a phonograph's stylus following the grooves in a record. The instrument used by the Lawrence Berkeley scientists is called an atomic-force microscope. It's like other such microscopes, except for one thing: Its point is coated with platinum, a common catalytic agent. 

When the researchers touched the needle to an azide molecule, the platinum catalyzed a reaction, turning the azide into an amine molecule. Says Peter Schultz, the senior staff chemist who's leading the research: ``Now we can do chemistry on surfaces instead of just looking at them.'' Developing nanochemistry to work with other catalysts and molecules, says Schultz, could point the way to custom-made materials with unique industrial applications, including new semiconductor materials. 

Document bw00000020011024dr730020x


More Like This

 Article 76 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NEWS FROM THE WHITE-NOSE FRONT 

EDITED BY NEIL GROSS 
149 words 
14 August 1995
Business Week 
79 
Number 3437 
English
(Copyright 1995 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

FOR SUN LOVERS CURSED with fair and sensitive skin, there's good news: a new sunblocking lotion that relies solely on the reflective properties of titanium dioxide (TiO2). It's already widely used in sunscreens. But the molecules tend to clump together, weakening their ability to deflect rays. To compensate, sunscreen makers add light-absorbing chemicals such as PABA, which can irritate skin and eyes. 

By refining TiO2, researchers at Nanophase Technologies in Burr Ridge, Ill., say they have eliminated the need for other chemicals. They vaporize the metal into tiny, ultrapure spheres that distribute themselves more evenly in lotion than the bulkier TiO2 molecules do. Nanophase will market its sunblock, called Nanoguard, later this summer. Meanwhile, it's developing new TiO2 products to protect paper, ceramics, and household fabrics, such as carpeting, from damaging rays. 

Document bw00000020011024dr8e002k4


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 77 *******************    



Science & Technology: CYBERSPACE 

WELCOME TO THE WORLD WIDE LAB By providing instant access to data, the Web is changing how research is done and shared 

By Joan O'C. Hamilton in San Francisco, with Heidi Dawley in London 
1,617 words 
30 October 1995
Business Week 
66 
Number 3448 
English
(Copyright 1995 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Dr. Ingrid E. Akerblom's research at Incyte Pharmaceuticals Inc. could be crucial to developing a new generation of superior medicines. But this biologist never peers into a microscope, squints at a lab rat, or draws blood from a wincing patient. 

Rather, Akerblom sits at a computer all day, analyzing genetic information that will be part of a giant database program linked to information sources around the globe. Her job is to make those data sing. With a few mouse clicks, she can zip from her Palo Alto (Calif.) headquarters to Switzerland, Washington, and St. Louis, amassing clues about disease pathology, for example, that just a few years ago would have taken months to harvest from traditional biology experiments and days to cross-check in the bowels of a library. 

Although she is glued to a powerful workstation, Akerblom bears little resemblance to the ``digital scientists'' who drive the world's fastest supercomputers to model cosmic string theory and other exotica. While these pioneers rule the theoretical reaches, Akerblom is part of a more grassroots phenomenon: scientists using the ever expanding graphical and software links of the World Wide Web as a new way to do science. 

The potential of the Web, created by physicists less than five years ago to speed navigation of the global Internet, is tantalizing scientists of nearly every persuasion and changing the way they run experiments, compare data, and publish papers. It's also leveling scientific hierarchies by giving researchers around the planet access to the most advanced scientific tools and databases. The Net may not be ready for prime-time commerce, as recent security breaches suggest. But it is becoming a surprisingly powerful platform for scientific discovery. Says San Diego Supercomputer Center computational ecologist Richard Marciano: ``The scope and magnitude of problems being tackled is at a level never reached before.'' 

Incyte's crown jewel is Lifeseq--a proprietary database holding tens of thousands of gene sequences extracted from tissue libraries. Trouble is, each sequence is just a long stream of raw genetic code--alphabet soup, to the naked eye. Incyte and its pharmaceutical partners, including Upjohn, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, and Hoechst, seek answers to specific questions, such as which genes are turned on in cancer, or what effect a chemical has on genes linked to arthritis. NATURE'S CODE. To create signposts, Akerblom and other Incyte researchers ``annotate'' gene data as they arrive and use HTML (hypertext markup language)--the link-building programming language of the Web. By using the Netscape Communications Corp. Web browser, scientists can explore connections, say, between lists of genes functioning in healthy vs. diseased tissue. And they can step seamlessly from Incyte's private domain to public databases. The possibilities that open up, Akerblom says, ``have blown my scientific mind.'' 

The exponential increase in data from the Human Genome Project is one force driving biology to the forefront of Web-based science. DNA is as close as nature gets to pure software code and is readily adapted to computer analysis. As a result, experimental biology has evolved from in vitro and in vivo to ``in silico.'' GenBank, a public, Bethesda (Md.)-based gene repository, lets Web-wise scientists compare new sequence data against a huge database. The number of ``intellectual queries'' from the Web has soared from zero in 1992 to 12,500 a day now. Earlier this year, researchers using this query approach to study the so-called ataxia gene were thrilled to uncover a similar gene in yeast--one that has been studied extensively. That provided hints to the human gene's function. In a matter of seconds, says GenBank Director David Lipman, the Web lets scientists ``make discoveries that nobody who created the databases ever dreamed of.'' 

Physicists, who have strong stomachs for the arcane codes of the Internet, were among the first to cruise databases and public servers. They set up the first ``pre-print servers'' to make scientific papers available long before they are physically published--a trend that's now spreading to other disciplines. And physicist Philip Berners-Lee invented the Web and HTML. 

At first, researchers at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC) in Menlo Park, Calif., and elsewhere used Web pages for ``housekeeping'' chores, such as maintaining phone directories. Then some began putting up their workbooks, giving other high-energy physicists almost real-time access to notes on cutting-edge experiments. BAY WATCH. When scientists in other fields saw how easy it was to navigate databases using HTML, lightbulbs went on. At the San Diego Supercomputer Center, for example, ecologist Marciano is dusting off 20 years of Landsat data sitting in tape reels and getting them Web-ready so researchers grappling with global warming, land-use patterns, or water-storage problems will be able to analyze measurements over time. 

Another effort, the ``San Diego Bay Project,'' is linking disparate databases full of measurements on sediment chemistry, bird species, and vegetation growth. Using new software tools such as Virtual Reality Modeling Language, researchers will be able to move through 3-D representations of these data. 

Such powers have attracted major scientific journals, virtually all of which have gone online or are thinking about it. Neither the review boards nor most readers are in a hurry to weaken the peer review process. But scientists on the Web get used to instant communication. 

One effect may be to breathe new life into disciplines such as archaeology. By its very nature, explains Michael P. Heyworth, deputy director of the Council for British Archaeology, research in this field is destructive: Sites can only be dug up once. By next August, however, the council hopes to have a new journal on the Web that will display measurements and images and allow readers to review sites from the angle of their choice. Heyworth hopes readers of the Web journal will be able to simulate a walk through, say, Stonehenge on a midsummer's day, showing the sun and shadows from the astronomically correct angles. 

And since cyberspace is not bound by physical page lengths, scientists can put up their complete data so colleagues can perform their own analyses. These data are neither better nor worse in quality than they have ever been. They're simply easier to obtain. Says organic chemist Henry Rzepa of London's Imperial College of Science, Technology & Medicine: ``We're trying to strip off the grime'' of misinterpretation that can occur when data are marshalled to support a theory. Collaboration also takes on new resonance. Rzepa recently hosted a chemistry ``conference'' exclusively on the Web, including presentations, papers, and discussions--at almost no cost. 

Such efficiencies are critical in a time of shrinking budgets. More and more conferences include an electronic repository for the pounds of written materials and papers scientists used to collect and lug around. And if a meeting is hot, says Marciano, ``discussion lives on long after the meeting.'' 

Even bigger cost-savers may lie ahead. Last March, a group of fusion scientists joined a novel experiment at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. They sat well beyond the requisite 70-foot safety distance from MIT's Tokamak magnetic-chamber plasma device--3,000 miles beyond it, in fact, since they operated the Tokamak remotely from California. PLASMA DONATION. For 12 hours, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory scientists controlled plasma bursts in the $30 million Tokamak over the Internet, while watching the results and swapping ideas through live audio and video feeds. Scientists are studying Web-based interfaces for similar experiments. And since most major labs are facing dire budget cuts, such collaborations will likely be used to stretch scarce funding, says Ian Hutchinson, director of the Alcator Fusion Project at MIT's Plasma Fusion Center. In theory, nothing would prevent sites around the country from simultaneously viewing a fusion experiment and taking turns ``driving'' it. Scientists could share other resources, such as accelerators and radio telescopes. 

Scientists face some of the same hurdles as business executives who embrace the Web, such as slow access times and vulnerability to corruption or sabotage. Maintaining databases is also expensive, so the best ones are often overloaded. 

What's more, the sociology of science is changing. ``Access is no longer a function of where you are or what your facilities are,'' says Bebo White, the ``Webmaster'' at Stanford's SLAC. By simply clicking to the home page of Pedro M. Coutinho, a chemical engineering graduate student at Iowa State University, anyone can browse a treasure trove of biotech resources and find pointers to powerful gene-analysis programs. 

It's not surprising that such a long list of issues would arise from such a fundamental development. From astronomy to zoology, scientists are putting their imaginations to work on the Web--and in the process, blowing their minds. 

Download a version of this story with Web links from Business Week Online on America Online 

How Scientists Are Working the Web 

REMOTE CONTROL Scientists could one day ``drive'' IBM'S scanning tunneling microscopes remotely to build atomic landscapes. But technicians would still load samples by hand 

NEW VIEWS Projects in chemistry, physics, and medicine exploit the Web's dazzling 3-D graphics. The National Library of Medicine sponsored digital training videos linked to these icons 

COMMUNICATIONS Organic chemist Henry Rzepa and Britain's Royal Society of Chemistry collaborate in electronic publishing experiments to bring 3-D renderings of molecules to life 

Photograph: GENE-CRUNCHING: Web links give Akerblom data from St. Louis to Switzerland ROBERT HOLMGREN 


Document bw00000020011024drau003ex


More Like This

 Article 78 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
221 words 
30 October 1995
Business Week 
70 
Number 3448 
English
(Copyright 1995 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

-- Just days apart, two teams of biotech researchers announced they had found the gene that regulates flowering. Scientists at the Salk Institute in La Jolla, Calif., and the University of California at San Diego say that the results promise to boost crop yields by coaxing plants to bloom faster and to shorten the time it takes to cross-breed new hybrid strains. They could even be used to inspire rose plants to sprout flowers where leaves would normally grow. -- Snapshots of atomic structures have led to many new insights in materials science. But the static images that are produced by a scanning tunneling microscope (STM) don't illuminate what happens while one atom is reacting with others. Now, physicist Brian S. Swartzentruber at Sandia National Laboratories has developed a new STM--one that's so sensitive it can track a moving atom. It should yield new understandings in semiconductor physics. 

-- Grinding the high-quality lenses used in cameras, fax machines, and smart-bomb ``eyes'' has always been more art than science. Until now. Researchers at the University of Rochester have devised a program that predicts the results of grinding various glass formulations. It's a ``significant breakthrough'' in controlling factory-floor operations, says Harvey Pollicove, director of Rochester's Center for Optics Manufacturing. 

Document bw00000020011024drau003f1


More Like This

 Article 79 *******************    



Cover Story (The Best New Products): The Best New Products 

THE BEST WEB SITES 

108 words 
8 January 1996
Business Week 
65 
Number 3457 
English
(Copyright 1996 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

THE SPOT(www.thespot.com) A daily soap opera about twentysomethings. 

EDGAR (www.sec.gov/edgarhp.htm) Repository for sec filings by companies since '94. 

CENSUS (www.census.gov) If it's demographic information you want, this is the place. 

ESPN SPORTSZONE (espnet.sportszone.com) Up-to-date scores of college and pro games. 

WOODROW (woodrow.mpls.frb.fed.us) Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis' site has tons of financial info. 

IBM's Almaden Reseach Center (www.almaden.ibm.com:80/vis/stm/gallery.html) Breathtaking portraits of atoms, made by scanning tunneling microscopes. 

Document bw00000020011013ds180005k


More Like This

 Article 80 *******************    



Chips triumphant. (history of microprocessor industry and technology) (includes related article on deconstruction of semiconductor industry)(Forbes ASAP) (Industry Trend or Event) 

Michael S. Malone 
6,378 words 
26 February 1996
Forbes 
S52 
Vol. 157, No. 4, ISSN: 0015-6914 
English
COPYRIGHT 1996 Forbes Inc. 

THE PERSONAL COMPUTER FIRST MADE THE INTEGRATED circuit chip real to most of us. Now, despite the fact that it is the most complicated consumer product in history, the average person knows an amazing amount about the microprocessor and its use in the PC. Packard Bell found out die hard way this past Christmas. Buyers shunned its underpowered PCs. Customers wanted powerful 10-megahertz Pentiums, not the cheaper 75s. Maybe you can go broke by underestimating the sophistication of the American buyer. 

Unfortunately, this expertise has come at the expense of knowing about the rest of the semiconductor industry. In fact, at about $50 billion in annual sales, microprocessors represent only one-third of the $150 billion worldwide semiconductor market. Another 40% is for computer memory. The rest is composed of tiny devices, many selling for no more than a nickel, that are nonetheless critical to our modern work: amplifiers, rectifiers, diodes, optoelectronics and scores of other mechanisms. 

How many chips are out there? Perhaps 200 billion. A staggering figure. And more than 10 billion of these are microprocessors and their cousins, microcontrollers. 

Where are all those chips going? What does this vast invisible chip world mean to your business? 

How can you strap your business to the rising chip rocket? 

Or, perhaps you ask, should you care? 

The average American, it's said, knows more about the atomic bomb than about the integrated circuit; though the former remains (happily) all but unused in a half century, while the latter defines almost every corner of our daily lives. It is high time we close this knowledge gap. If we are going to prepare for the new millenium, we need to start with a common, basic knowledge of chips. 

For that purpose we've created this special issue of Forbes ASAP. We hope you'll learn from it and then save it for future reference. A by that, we mean for the rest of your life because, as surprising as it may sound, the greatest breakthroughs of the semiconductor revolution may still be ahead. 

"IT'S AS SIMPLE AS THIS," says BRIAN F. WILKIE, general manager of Motorola's advanced microcontroller division. "If there is any point in your production process or in the use of your product that is electrically controllable, then you should immediately assume that one of your competitors is using chips to make that product or process faster, cheaper, more reliable and more user-friendly. 

"And that's just the start. If you can figure out any way to add electrical control to manufacturing, production or even distribution of your products, you should do it. Why? Just so you can then put in the chips." 

From children's apparel to currency arbitrage, chain-store retailing to machine tooling, the smartest and best are exploiting chips. If not within products, then in their manufacture, their distribution, their retail sale, their service and support, their marketing or their use by the customer. Today there is at least one semiconductor circuit connected with just about every electrical device or motor on earth. And new product designers, following Wilkie's dictum, have raced to stick the computer intelligence of microprocessors and microcontrollers in the most amazing places: lightbulbs, basketball shoes, ski bindings, bodies irons, credit cards, pet collars, greeting cards, even human bones, to list just a handful of the thousands of recent uses. 

This panoply of applications in the industrialized world is matched only by the sheer volume of chip usage that is anticipated for the developing world. In such places as China, planners are looking to leapfrog the expensive, traditional infrastructure of copper wire and go right to wireless fiber optics--a prodigious leap that will be propelled by scores of billions of semiconductor chips. 

Sometimes it seems as if the best solution is simply to abandon your fears and leap into an embrace with high tech. Buy all the chippacked gizmos you can get your hands on, put robots on the manufacturing line, give your salespeople laptops and hire a platoon of EEs--electrical engineers--to reconfigure your product line. 

But then there are the sobering counterexamples. Just ask Denver International Airport, the Internal Revenue Service or the London Stock Exchange. 

Nearly 50 years of working with semiconductors and 25 years with the microprocessor itself have taught us three critical rules for success in the chip age. You'll find bits and pieces of these rules in many of the popular business books-but never together as in the summary that follows. 

RULE NO. 1: LISTEN TO THE TECHNOLOGY 

"The simple truth is that chips will only become more pervasive," says Charlie Carinalli, senior vice-president and chief technical officer at National Semiconductor. "It's all happening so fast that nobody--not even we in the industry--can look out five years into die future. Often the best we can do is try to be moving in the right direction for next year." 

Each of the 170 million or so microprocessors turned out annually is the result of a lab process that has been compared in complexity to the Manhattan Project. 

Why is all this important to know? Because, in the world of semiconductors, function follows form. Every advance at the chip even in capacity, price, speed or new feature ripples all the way down the computer chain to the IBM Thinkpad in front of you, the Sony Playstation in your kid's room and die dashboard on your car. 

An example: In the early 1980s, as it began designing the Macintosh, Apple Computer switched from the microprocessor it had used for Apple II and III to a new chip, the Motorola 68000. The new chip allowed the Mac to have a different sort of display, called bit mapped, that was clearer and more precise. Bit mapping, in turn, made possible cheap computer graphics, which transformed the entire computer industry. But more than that, bit mapping also lent itself to composition--and, when combined with the new laser printers, to desktop publishing. The result was a brand-new, multibillion-dollar industry. Software companies like Adobe Systems that recognized the power of bit mapping early got rich; typesetting shops that didn't got nuked. 

The same thing is happening today. The Mpact multimedia processor from Silicon Valley upstart Chromatic Research performs seven tasks, including modem/ fax, voice mail and the acceleration of graphics (two- and three-dimensional), audio and video. 

This type of "category elimination," in which entire markets disappear after the arrival of new technology, will be increasingly common in die years to come. The only way to survive it is to see it coming (and there won't be much time), usually from the most unlikely direction. Then, get your company ahead of the curve--or out of die way. 

Luckily, the same process will also lead to more category creation as well. If you've ever wondered why a dozen fast-growing companies always seem to be popping up out of nowhere in places like Silicon Valley, that's the reason. America's high-tech enclaves are really company factories, bringing together venture capitalists, entrepreneurs, suppliers and consultants who wait for the latest chip generation to arrive and then pounce on the new product opportunities it presents. In a hot new market, such as the World Wide Web, 100 or more new companies may jump on the bandwagon. 

The microchip is pulling that wagon. To succeed in the information age, you need to know what new wonders are emerging at the chip and system levels, which companies are developing products using the latest chips, when those products will appear, and how you can use them. 

For those of you who aren't Ees, this may sound daunting. Fear not; the process itself is systematic. The information is there. You just need the will and the time to wade through it. 

RULE NO. 2: MASS-CUSTOMIZE 

Everything you do with chips should serve this larger goal: creating customers for life. This is what chips enable; inexorably, this will be the next competitive battlefield. Companies that learn to produce in volume while using chips to adapt each product to the needs of single customers will have a nearly insurmountable advantage. 

"Mass customization" sounds like an oxymoron. And even those who understand it often assume that it will be possible for only a limited number of products, such as the much heralded Motorola pager fine, which produces millions of units each year, all of them different--manufactured, in Motorola's phrase, "in lots of one." Not so. Some celebrated mass customizers like lighting-control manufacturer Lutron Electronics, Andersen Windows and freezer-maker Baffy Refrigerated Boxes essentially backed into mass customization as they retooled their companies to solve specific competitive challenges. 

Don't assume that mass customization works only for complex products. You really can mass-customize dog food and potato chips. Consider the work of the George Group, manufacturing consultants in Dallas who have developed a model for what they call microproduction. 

According to Francis X. Buckman, formerly senior vice-president of the George Group, large consumer companies, Ming to meet shorter lead times, reduce inventory and still satisfy customer demand for greater variety, have moved to ever-more-centralized mass production. But this, says Buckman, is only a short-term solution, "because eventually the infrastructure--shipping, mailing, etc.--begins to work against them. Centralized facilities have a built-in lead time they cannot overcome. 

"Meanwhile, thanks to new chip-based manufacturing and control technologies, you no longer need to make, say, a 5,000-gallon drum of detergent. Now you can make a small jar of the stuff just as cost-effectively." 

"Microproduction takes advantage of this latter trend through what Buckman calls "mass deployment": moving production out to local sites, even to the retailer. Translation: It is now possible to make fresh potato chips or dog food in small machines right at the supermarket or pet food store, with the exact ingredients, product size and volume the customer desires. Want half the usual caffeine in your Coke? Prefer your Doritos in an 8.5-ounce bag? Does your Pekingese eat only small-sized kibble? Soon, stores will be able to fill your custom orders. The George Group is already working with Hill's Pet Nutrition to begin mass deployment of microproduced dog food in Europe. 

If mass customization is the future, why aren't more people doing it yet? 

Two reasons. The first is technical. Only in die last five years have chips become powerful enough, small enough and cheap enough to do many of the tasks demanded by mass customization. You don't want to put a $500 Pentium in a lightbulb to help it conserve power. But the same Pentium five years from now will cost about 10 bucks, and five years after that, I 0 cents. And when the brain of die most powerful Pc becomes less expensive than shoestrings, imagine the possibilities. Conversely, die new $500 microprocessor of a decade from now will have all the power of today's Cray supercomputer: animation, modeling, speech recognition, pattern recognition, etc. Just imagine what you can do with one of those wired into one of your factory robots. 

Indeed, use your imagination. Failing to do so is the second reason limiting the general acceptance of mass customization. Despite Wilkie's dictum, few manufacturers or service providers can yet imagine the reality of mass customization and how quickly die little chip will get us there. But it will. And some of those companies may be your current or (dropping in seemingly from nowhere) your future competitors. Often, the first to market will quickly own that market, leaving room for perhaps one more competitor. So the real question to ask yourself is: Will my company be one of those two that survive? 

RULE NO. 3: RIDE THE SILICON LEARNING CURVE 

This third and final rule is embodied in the first two. If you fully understand the power of the semiconductor chip, then you know the chip is not a one-time implementation, but a process that must become a continuous part of running your business. The bad news is that since the ENIAC computer of 1946, the efficiency of information technology, especially at the chip level, has jumped by 32 orders of magnitude--that's 100,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000, or about 100 octillion times--not only the greatest single improvement in productivity in human history, but a leap to the very limits of human experience with the universe. And that is how big of an opportunity you've already missed. 

But the good news is that most estimates put us only halfway through the advances of the chip. The greatest are yet to come. So, though you may have missed one universe of opportunities, it is not too late to get on board for the next one. The Chip Revolution has only just begun. 

Just what is a chip? At the core is a switch, an idea that stretches back to the first wooden gates on corrals and herding pens. A gate has a binary function: Open it and animals pass through; close it and they cannot. Translate this to a mechanical system--say a lock or a railroad track--and you have a mechanism that was known to the Romans: a mechanical switch. Run electricity through it and you have that ubiquitous mechanism of modern life, the wall light switch. 

But you've still got a problem. The mechanical switch is a powerful tool, but it has real limitations. For one thing, you need someone on hand to throw it. Somebody has to lock die gate or the cows get out; and some yardmaster had better run down the tracks and swing the big switch arm or two trains will collide. 

So now take that mechanical switch, the one with electricity flowing through it, and add a second electrical line, this one passing through a coil of wire that is wrapped around the metal arm of the switch itself. If you send a current through this second line, it will create a magnet and throw the switch--from afar. Thus, you have an electro-mechanical switch, a key invention of die 19th century and the heart of telegraphy (and, until recently, telephony). 

So far so good. What followed was the idea of using one flow of electricity to control another. No moving parts--a real breakthrough!--but the feat could be done only in a vacuum tube. Then, in the late 1940s, two physicists at Bell Labs in New Jersey, Walter Brattain and John Bardeen, experimenting with a crystalline structure called a semiconductor, came up with this idea: Why not build an electronic switch out of solid materials without the need for fragile glass vacuum tubes? Bardeen and Brattain took their idea to another scientist at Bell Labs who happened to have one of the greatest minds of the century: William Shockley. Intrigued, Shockley offered some critical suggestions . . . and in 1947, two days before Christmas, the team built die first working transistor. 

The transistor, eventually sold in the billions and stuffed in everything from jet fighters to cheap radios, revolutionized electronics. It was very fast, small and used little power. By the end of die 1950s, the solid-state revolution was well under way. Transistors and other semiconductor devices quickly supplanted traditional tubes in almost every application, from radios to computers, and enabled even the rockets of the space age itself. 

All of this presented a terrific opportunity for clever entrepreneurs willing to dive into the semiconductor market. One such player was William Shockley himself, fresh from earning a Nobel Prize for the transistor. Moving back home to Palo Alto, Calif., he gathered the brightest young men in electronics and solid-state physics and set out to take the transistor market by storm. 

Shockley, however, was a miserable businessman, and his young engineers, henceforth known as the Traitorous Eight, soon grew disenchanted and quit to found their own company, Fairchild Semiconductor, the mother finn of Silicon Valley. 

At fairchild, a team led by the Eight's leader, Robert Noyce, set out to find a new, more effective way to manufacture semiconductors. Noyce had the idea (coincidentally also being pursued by a scientist at Texas Instruments, jack Kilby) that the transistor could be created using a lithographic process as a series of etched and plated regions on a tiny sheet of silicon. Moreover, he thought this process, like printing, would be almost infinitely repeatable. And that in turn meant a semiconductor manufacturer could replace a bank of transistors soldered to a printed circuit board with an array of interconnected circuits, digital or analog, printed on a single sliver of silicon. 

In other words, a solid-state system, an integrated circuit. The integrated circuit, following die Noyce/Kilby model and made practical by the "planar" process devised by another of the Traitorous Eight, Jean Hoerni, was a masterstroke, an invention that proved even greater than die triode or the transistor. That's because with the IC, semiconductors stepped onto an economy-of-scale path unlike any the world had ever seen. Using the most common of elements (silicon, oxygen, common metals), chip manufacturers could now construct devices worth hundreds of times their raw material costs. And the photolithographic process enabled the manufacturers to continue to reduce the size of the circuits themselves until they became so microscopic that chipmakers could put tens of millions of them on a single eight-inch silicon wafer. 

Thus were planted the seeds of Moore's Law, the very principle that governs the information age. 

By the mid-1960s, two types of digitals had emerged: logic and memory and, within the latter, two forms developed as well, random access memory or RAM for blank storage, and read-only memory or ROM to hold prepared software programs. These memory chips would in time be further modified into different types (dynamic or static RAM, electronically programmable Rom, nonvolatile memory, etc.) for distinct applications. This division in use was not unexpected, given the computer industry's need for ICs that could replace current processor and memory hardware. 

In 1968, two of the Traitorous Eight, Noyce and Gordon Moore, left Fairchild to start a new company, Intel, dedicated to making memory chips using a new process called metalic oxide semiconductor (MOS). The company was just getting on its feet when an order came from a Japanese calculator company, Busicom, for a new design that could put all of a calculator's functions on just a handful of chips. 

The founders of Intel hesitated, but one of the company's engineers, Marcian "Ted" Hoff, who had been studying the new minicomputers and thought their architectures could be transferred to silicon, finally convinced them to try. Soon a team formed that included Hoff, Intel engineer Stan Mazor, Busicom's top engineer Masatoshi Shima (who soon joined Intel) and a famous silicon designer who'd just joined from Fairchild, Federico Faggin. 

The four-chip set they designed, the Intel 4004, was the world's first microprocessor. Within three years, with the model 8080, the chip's performance had improved eightfold. 

The microprocessor may well be the single most important invention of the late 20th century. Its real breakthrough is that it takes the process of integration to the next step. In the microprocessor, logic, memory and certain discrete functions are all combined into a complete system, a "computer on a chip." 

Since the introduction of the 8080, the microprocessor has embarked on a steady march through generation after generation of improvements, in the process pulling along all electronics, but especially the personal computer, in its wake. The modem Pentium or PowerPC is 1,000 times as powerful as the 8080 and contains three million transistors. This relentless progress, outstripping any comparable technological advance, was first described by Intel's cofounder, Gordon Moore. Moore's Law, celebrated as the defining rule of the modern world, states that the computer chip performance doubles every 18 months. 

If thanks to the computer chip, continuous, unremitting change is our fate, how do we plan for the future? How can we conduct our businesses--our lives--with any certainty? 

The best place to look for answers is in the chip business itself After all, it was the first to experience the future shock of microelectronics, and it has coped the longest. 

So, how do the Intels, Texas Insumentses and Motorolas deal with, and thrive, in such an apparently unpredictable business reality? And how do the fast-moving new companies, which have to attack new markets first to survive, know what to target and which emerging technologies to pursue? 

The answer lies within Moore's Law and its implications. And it would not be exaggerating to say that every businessperson and engineer in Silicon Valley, phoenix, Austin and the rest of the world's tech enclaves works with one eye always on the ticking clock of this law. The smart businessperson, no matter what his or her industry, would be well advised to do the same. 

"Moore's Law is important because it is the only stable ruler we have today," says Tim Bajarin, president of San Jose-based industry watcher Creative Strategies. "It's a sort of technological barometer. It very clearly tells you that if you take the information processing power you have today and multiply by two, that will be what your competition will be doing 18 months from now. And that is where you too will have to be." 

A little background: In 1965, Dr. Gordon Moore was invited to write an article for Electronics magazine, in which he formulated the theory now known as Moore's Law. Moore had not only helped build the first integrated circuits but also had cofounded Fairchild Semi-conductor and his current company, Intel. More anyone in the industry, then or now, he possessed an intuitive sense of the nature of semiconductors, and of how their advances in capacity, size, speed and price seemed to be accelerating. 

On a hunch, Moore took out a sheet of logarithmic graph paper and plotted the performance of past and current memory chips, as well as those he knew were still being developed. To his amazement, the points made a straight line. It seemed that every 18 to 24 months the complexity of those memory chips doubled. Extending the line outwards he predicted that it would take only 20 years to grow the 1,000-bit DRAM memory chip of 1970 to one million bits. 

The very idea of a million-bit DRAM was outrageous when Moore made his prediction. Yet, it proved true. More remarkably, Moore's Law held up for other chips, such as microprocessors, as well. And, with a few adjustments, it also has described the performance improvements of nearly every box those chips have gone into, from personal computers to fax machines. 

Working with Moore's Law, the semiconductor industry discovered some interesting things. For example, you could now predict with some certainty what the chips of not only the next generation, but three or four generations out, would be like--and start designing for them. Thus, it has become a business that focuses less on what is, than on what will soon be. 

As simple as Moore's Law is, its implications are profound. For instance, it suggests you can hold one or more of the variables constant and vary all the others. Thus, instead of track--the latest and most powerful chips as they march into new applications, you can also track a given chip model as its price plummets over the years and it brings its capabilities to whole new markets. You can even look ahead: Thanks to Moore's Law, if you know the pace of change and what level of intelligence you want in your product, then you can predict when that technology will be affordable and plan for it now. 

As you might imagine, making just such predictions is an obsession in electronics. After all, the next equivalent of the video game business or the laptop computer or the CD-ROM may be just around the comer waiting to bestow forward thinkers with almost limitless rewards ... and punish the shortsighted with oblivion. 

A survey of some of the best thinkers in the high-tech industry revealed a wide range of potential future scenarios--and even more potential market opportunities. The irony of Moore's Law is that every one of these predictions, no matter how wild, may at some joint prove true. So may yours. And if the past is any indication, all of the opportunities we can think up will be but a fraction of those that eventually appear. 

For Avram Miller, Vice-President of Corporate Business development for Intel, the big story of the present--personal computers--will remain so, far into the future. "The personal computer," he says, Will be to the 21st century what the automobile was to the 20th. It will reorganize the way we live, play and spend our lives. 

"How it will affect a particular business will vary with the business. But one thing appears obvious--some of the hottest places for doing business will not be places at all, but will exist in cyberspace. There will be a whole new world of virtual products and services that live only in this other world, which we will create as we go along. 

"Say you and I went to college together but we live far apart and we want to get together to watch our old team play. We could do that on our computers--and not only that, we could add to the experience," says Miller. "For example, if I want to stop the action--freeze frame--I could replay that on both our machines, commenting as I went. So could you. So could five of us. Or 10,000. Perhaps we could buy a ticket for an event that exists only on the Internet. Five years from now, wearing 3D glasses similar to the regular glasses we wear now, hearing 3D sound, we could attend that event in a cyberstadium, with the computer acting as our liaison, tracking our location, adjusting our experience. Think of the new businesses and services that could grow from this. 

"I know it sounds wild. It's as hard for us to understand as the airplane was in the 19th century. Yet now we fly on planes every day. Cyberspace will be a world 21st-century man will feel at home in." 

If Miller is looking at consumer electronics, Federico Faggin is, not surprisingly, studying the chip itself The builder of the first microprocessor (see page 96), Faggin is today CEO of Synaptics, a company that researches how chips process sensory information. 

"We tend to predict the future of microprocessors as heading in a single direction: Pentium, Pentium Pro, P7, P8 and so on into the future. And I have no doubt that will occur. But I think there is a second path that's now emerging as well. 

"Call it point-of-need hardware, PON. It arises from the fact that computers are coming down in price and being used by people who don't know anything about computers. We need computers that are more like us, that can talk to us, adapt to our needs, learn from us," says Faggin. 

"What we want are computers that are like people, that share many of the features of our brains--like the ability to learn from experience rather than needing to be told in excruciating detail--without all the complications of emotions and biological requirements. We want computers to be intuitive and have common sense; most of all, we want them to be able to interact with us naturally, through sight, sound and touch. 

"Today's microprocessor architectures just can't do that. But there are other ways. We have a whole body of programmable chips--'plastic hardware," you might call them--like field-programmable gate arrays and field-programmable interconnect components that could be linked together into powerful systems that could be rewired and reprogrammed as you need it. This brings us into a world of 'appropriate hardware.' Suppose you wanted to make a cellular phone call," he suggests. "Then this chipset--or eventually single chip-would configure itself as a cell phone. A few minutes later, you might tell it to become a global positioning system. Or a fax machine. Or a laser printer. 

"What we're talking about is a nondifferentiated set of circuitry that can become what you want. If you want more performance, you buy it, like buying fabric or flooring. "How far off is this? Twenty years probably. Fifty years for biological computers. In the meantime, a convergence of computers and communication, wireless, Internet. That's what will impact you tomorrow." 

Perhaps no one in the world has a better sense of this than Motorola's Brian Wilkie. His division is the world's largest producer of microcontrollers. "Chips have quietly, almost invisibly, changed changed the world around us," Wilkie says. "Your telephone was an electromechanical device, now it is electronic. And the cell phone in your car has more user-friendly features than the ones on most desks. Your hotel door lock has an electronic key that can tell the room to wait five minutes then turn off the fights. 

"What many businesspeople don't realize is that the real design challenge was moving from mechanical to electrical, adding the switches and the little electrical motors. The next step, to intelligence, requires an incredibly small incremental cost increase. That's the great opportunity but also the great risk, because you need to worry about whether your competitors will beat you to it. 

"And no business is immune," he says. "Even if I was designing children's clothing in Indianapolis," he says, I'd be thinking hard about whether I should add intelligence to my designing, cutting, manufacturing, even to the clothes themselves. A few years from now kids could be wearing leather jackets with built-in displays." Wilkie, a Scotsman, laughs, "But what I'm waiting for is for someone to come up with the smart golf tee. It would register your swing as it comes down, then lean left or right to find the sweet spot on your club." 

Moore's Law is THE VERY EMBODIMENT OF the old fable about the Chinese emperor who agreed to the terms proposed by a craftsman--to get paid in a quantity of rice that would double with each square of a chessboard. Halfway down the squares, the emperor realized these terms had committed him to give the clever man all the rice in the world. 

As described by Moore's Law, the electronics industry undergoes the equivalent of the great Industrial Revolution every two years. And it isn't slowing. As Tim Bajarin notes, " Moore's Law may actually be accelerating, such that we may see by the end of the century three or four times' jumps in performance every 18 months." 

Eventually, of course, it has to end. As Moore noted in Forbes recently, if the semiconductor industry will soon represent I of the world's economy, by the middle of the 2 1 st century, it would total 100% of it, which seems impossible. 

There are also technical questions. As the features on the surface of the chip continue to miniaturize into submicron widths, they collide with the rules of quantum physics. The walls of the pathways literally become bumpy with molecules. The miniature circuit sizes throw off ever-stronger electric fields that interfere with the chip's performance. Heat, too. Contemporary chips throw off as much as 10 times the heat as a comparable cookstove surface. Electrons start tunneling through the insulating walls, threatening to short the circuit. Apparently, the chip is racing toward an unbreachable physical wall. 

Six years ago, Dr. James Meindl, former provost of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, proposed a Chip Performance Index CPD to measure how much time was left before the chip reached this barrier. For current designs he guessed the limit of miniaturization was [10.sup.25]. He estimated the current CPI is [10.sup.18]--suggesting that semiconductors have only (!) a 10 million times' jump in improvement left. A huge amount, but small compared with what's happened so far. If Moore's Law is right, that limit is only about 20 years away. If Bajarin is right, even sooner. 

So, there's some consolation: Around 2020 the madness will end and we (or our children) can catch our breath and assimilate the extraordinary events of the preceding half-century. 

But wait, not so fast. Last April, at a National Semiconductor technology conference, Meindl, now with Georgia Tech, listed all of these technological obstacles and then reminded the chip designers that these problems are no greater than the ones the industry has overcome in the last two decades. Human ingenuity will always prevail, he said; the semiconductor revolution will continue indefinitely. 

Craig R. Barrett, Coo of Intel and chair of SIA's Technology Strategy Committee, thinks so, too. Working with the Semiconductor Industry Association, the trade group for U.S. chip makers, Barrett created the National Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors, which identifies potential roadblocks and ways to avoid them. How? No one knows the answer. Future chips may not be silicon but gallium arsenide. They may be cubes floating in liquid nitrogen. The millions of transistors may be gone, aced by arcane structures such as quantum dots or Josephson junctions. Or the chip may be a crystal lattice or a skin of living nerve cells. 

Whatever form the chip takes, it will continue its phenomenal trajectory well into the lives of our grandchildren. We have tied ourselves to a comet whose journey has just begun. 

RELATED ARTICLE: PENTIUM AT A GLANCE 

* Estimated total cost to produce the Pentium: roughly $1.5 billion. 

* Approximate cost for design and development: $200 million. Time spent: three years. 

* Cost to build fabrication plants used to manufacture the Pentium: $1 billion to $1.5 billion each; 75% of the cost is for equipment. 

* Average cost to produce a Pentium processor: approximately $50 Average price of the Pentium: $300 

* Number of Pentium chips produced in 1995: 32 million. The Pentium was developed more quickly than any other generation of Intel microprocessor. Also, it took less time to reach a million units shipped than any other generation-it happened within the fist year. (It usually takes at least year and a half or longer.) 

* Fab plants designed to produce the Pentium can be used in that capacity for only about two years. By that time, the equipment is outdated and the fab has been completely amortized. To get its money's worth, Intel has to run the plant 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Employees work shifts of four days on, three days off, which switches every other week to three days on, four days off. Older fab plants are used to manufacture less-complicated chips such as flash memory or 16-bit microprocessors. 

An estimated $20 of the $50 spent to produce each chip goes into engineering and design; $20 goes into capital-equipment expense and depreciation; 410 goes into chemicals and materials. 

* A 100-megahertz Pentium costs $118 to manufacture and sells for $300. The faster Pentiums cost the same to build but are sold for more. Chips are manufactured, tested and then stamped according to their evaluated performance speed. 

* A 120-megahertz Pentium sells for $357; a 133-megahertz for $520. 

* Estimated salaries of design team: Key architects: $150,000 (for senior people maybe $200,000 maximum with stock options, can make over $500,000) Software programmers: $60,000 Circuit designer: $80,000 to $120,000 Testers: $60,000 to $100,000 Manufacturing workers: $30,000 to $60,000 

RELATED ARTICLE: GLOSSARY 

ASIC 

(application-specific integrated circuit) Devices that perform a specific task using a custom blueprint of logic circuits, which can be mass-produced at low cost. Used in everything from video cameras to microwave ovens. 

Clock speed 

The number of cycles of operation, measured in hertz (cycles per second). The 8088 microprocessor used in the first IBM PC had a clock speed of 4 megahertz. Today's Pentiums run in the range of 75 to 160 megahertz. 

CPU 

(central processing unit) The microprocessor governing the operation of PCs, servers and workstations. 

DRAM 

(dynamic random-access memory) The primary type of RAM used in PCs. It is dynamic because its contents can be changed at will by application running on the system. 

Embedded processor 

A cheap microprocessor built into products like greeting cards and toys. 

Fuzzy logic 

The application of vagueness and approximation to computer logic, allowing computers to respond to less clearly defined input. 

Instruction set 

A set of binary codes that directly manipulate the registers, memory locations and other devices of the microprocessor. These codes are also referred to as microcode. 

Microcontroller 

A stripped-down microprocessor, designed to perform a specific function such as controlling an automotive fuel-injection system or a laser printer. Generally has fewer memory-management capabilities and a smaller instruction set than general-purpose microprocessor. 

Microprocessor 

A CPU on a single chip. Contains the logical elements for performing calculations carrying out stored instructions. 

Microprocessor learning curve 

As more companies employ microprocessors at the heart of their products and services, they will have to improve their products and services at the rate of chip evolution. 

MIPS 

(million of instruction per second) Measures performance of microprocessors. 

Neural networks 

The application of microprocessors and other integrated circuits simulating the architecture of the brain. Neural nets are used for pattern and voice recognition, and other applications requiring cognitive skills. 

Transistor 

An electronic capable of amplifying electronic signals similar to the vacuum tube but made from a semiconductor material such as silicon or germanium. Today's Intel Pentium contains more than 3 million transistors. 

illustration table chart graph 


Document fb00000020011014ds2q000d3


More Like This

 Article 81 *******************    



Science & Technology: ELECTRONICS 

SCIENCE'S NEW NANO FRONTIER 
The quest: To build supercomputers molecule by molecule 

By John Carey in Washington, with Heidi Dawley in London 
1,772 words 
1 July 1996
Business Week 
101 
Number 3482 
English
(Copyright 1996 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

`Anyone who is not shocked by quantum theory has not understood it,'' said Niels Bohr, one of the 20th century's premier physicists. In the quantum world--the world of atoms, electrons, and other very tiny things--cherished notions of reality collapse. Bits of matter can exist in more than one place at the same time. Electrons tunnel through seemingly impenetrable walls. And some say quantum theory allows the possibility of multiple parallel universes. 

All of this strange quantum behavior, which once mattered only to theoretical physicists, has major implications for the electronics industry. Semiconductors have shrunk to the point where the behavior of individual atoms and electrons will soon begin to matter. Quantum effects are starting to take over, changing all the rules. Unless chipmakers learn to harness quantum physics, growth in computer power and everything else that depends on chips will come to an abrupt end. 

``FUN TIME.'' Around 2010, the width of lines etched into semiconductors will be narrowing to less than one-tenth of a micron. Electrical signals running through those circuits will have so few electrons that adding or subtracting a single one could make a difference--putting chipmakers squarely in the quantum world. ``At that point, we better have a new technology ready to go into production,'' says Gary A. Frazier, manager of nanoelectronics at Texas Instruments Inc. 

That's why scientists around the world are rushing to probe what University of Wisconsin materials scientist Max G. Lagally calls ``the last great frontier in solid-state physics.'' Lagally and others have made tiny structures called quantum dots that can hold single electrons. They are so small that billions could dance on the head of a pin. Researchers have used quantum dots to fashion transistors that switch on or off with movements of a single electron. And they've concocted clever arrangements of quantum dots that could serve as the guts of tiny, powerful computers. ``It's a fun time,'' says Yale University electrical engineer Mark A. Reed. ``The field is exploding, and there's a lot of good work going on.'' 

The current research involves long-range, basic science. ``We have to understand the new physics, new properties, and new devices that might be possible at these smaller scales,'' explains IBM chemist Christopher B. Murray. Indeed, the quantum devices being built or contemplated today may never prove economically feasible. But the notion of building tiny structures molecule by molecule, incorporating advances in chemistry, physics, and materials science, is ``bound to have a tremendous payoff,'' says University of Notre Dame physicist James L. Merz. The promise has led companies such as Texas Instruments, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and Motorola to back major research efforts. 

The main goal of such research is to control the movement of very small groups of electrons without running afoul of weird quantum effects. Quantum dots could make that possible. These dots are clumps of matter less than 20 nanometers wide--that's 20 billionths of a meter, or about the length of a string of 60 silicon atoms. If such a clump is engineered from atoms with just the right properties, it can turn a free-spirited electron into a caged canary. The electron can't escape without a precisely sized boost of energy from the outside. 

This ``quantum confinement'' gives rise to some interesting phenomena. It makes possible the small, highly efficient lasers already in use in many CD players. These so-called quantum-well lasers are made of an ultrathin layer of semiconductor material sandwiched between two layers of another material. Electrons in the middle are trapped in a quantum flatland, able to move in only two dimensions. That makes it easier to pump energy into them in the way needed to produce laser light. The result: more light produced from less power. 

At Bell Laboratories, owned by AT&T spin-off Lucent Technologies Inc., researcher Loren Pfeiffer is delving even deeper into quantum research. He lops off one more dimension from the flatland and makes lasers based on so-called quantum wires. Inside, electrons can move in only one direction. Quantum-wire lasers can emit light at power levels beyond the practical limits of quantum-well lasers. ``That could prove an overwhelming advantage for communications,'' Pfeiffer says. These higher-power lasers may reduce the need for the expensive repeaters installed every 50 miles or so on telecommunications lines to regenerate laser pulses, which degrade as they travel through optical fibers. 

Scientists expect more gains by moving from quantum wires to quantum dots. But the quantum-dot lasers that researchers have built haven't lived up to expectations. For various reasons, including the difficulty of making these clusters exactly the same size, ``the dots are not as useful as people thought they would be,'' says researcher Gilberto Medeiros-Ribeiro at Hewlett-Packard Co. 

The first challenge is to find a way to mass-produce quantum dots of nearly identical size. Two leading methods are to etch pillars in semiconductors and to deposit clusters on top of them (diagram, page 101). Some researchers are spurning these techniques in favor of chemistry. For instance, Louis E. Brus, a physical chemist at Bell Labs, has pioneered a method that grows quantum-dot crystals in a test tube, molecule by molecule. Using this technique, researchers have built light-emitting diodes that can be tuned to different colors. 

Even more exotic are the quantum structures made from single organic molecules in James M. Tour's chemistry lab at the University of South Carolina. This approach offers the tantalizing prospect of packing trillions of molecule-size devices onto a square millimeter. That single millimeter would contain 10,000 times more transistors than now found in a PC. 

The ability of quantum dots to grab and hold electrons is essential if computing functions are to be performed by movements of single electrons. Physicist Konstantin K. Likharev of the State University of New York at Stony Brook has constructed a model memory chip with quantum storage dots. Single-electron transistors ``read'' the contents of the dots by sensing the electrical field of a trapped electron. On paper, his design could store a terabit of data--that's a trillion bits, or 15,000 times more than existing chips can store--on a chip about the same size as those used today. 

A number of research teams have crafted the single-electron transistors needed by Likharev's model. In 1993, for example, a Hitachi-funded lab at Britain's Cambridge University announced it had constructed an experimental single-electron memory device. Last July, it unveiled a single-electron logic structure. 

Most quantum devices work at extremely low temperatures. Even the slightest heat makes electrons too rambunctious and swamps the tiny quantum effects. However, by carefully altering materials to give quantum dots a tighter grip on their electrons, a few electrical engineers, including Kazuhiko Matsumoto of Japan's Electrotechnical Laboratory and Stanford University's James S. Harris, have recently built single-electron transistors that work at room temperature. ``When we were working at 1 Kelvin [minus 458F], most of the world thought we were really crazy,'' says Harris. ``Now, the work is stimulating a lot of research.'' 

Many problems remain to be solved. Switching speeds can be slow, and a single electron is easily diverted from its intended path by stray electrical energy. So instead of trying to design quantum imitations of today's computers, most scientists are hard at work concocting radically new approaches. 

SQUARE DANCE. At the University of Notre Dame, Craig S. Lent and fellow theorist Wolfgang Porod have come up with a scheme in which the basic building block is a square containing four quantum dots. When two electrons are added, they back into opposite corners. So the square has two possible configurations: electrons in the top left and bottom right corners, or in the top right and bottom left. This is just what's needed for a switch--and it can be flipped back and forth by the movements of electrons in neighboring squares. That means these squares can be arranged to duplicate all the logic functions needed for computing. So far, Lent's team has managed only to build pairs of dots to test the physics. But the initial results are ``stunning,'' says Lent. ``I was prepared for them not to work as well as they do.'' 

Whatever technique proves to be the best way of building quantum chips, years of painstaking engineering lie ahead. ``Quantum computing is so far out that, right now, it's just something fun to scratch our heads about,'' says R. Stanley Williams, head of Hewlett-Packard's new quantum effects lab. Still, researchers foresee a day when trillions of quantum dots could be stacked in layers on otherwise conventional slabs of silicon. That promises a supercomputer on a pinhead--making these exotic structures part of the hottest boomtown on the quantum frontier. 

HARNESSING QUANTUM DOTS

Quantum dots are the smallest electronic structures scientists can imagine. In the 21st century, they may lead to vastly smaller, yet far more powerful, chips and lasers. Here's how researchers are making quantum dots today: 

GROWING CLUSTERS Coat a semiconductor wafer with gallium arsenide. Shower the wafer with molecules of another semiconductor, such as indium arsenide. The falling molecules bind to the gallium arsenide--and act as seeds. As more molecules rain down, they attach to the seed molecules, forming cannonball piles. 

ETCHING PILLARS Print metal squares on the surface of a semiconductor wafer that has an ultrathin quantum layer of gallium arsenide sandwiched between two layers of silicon. Etch away the silicon, using ions that won't erode the metal squares, to expose the quantum layer. 

PRECIPITATING CRYSTALS In a solvent such as toluene, dissolve the ingredients for a two-part semiconductor--say, cadmium and selenium. Add a reagent to prevent the solvent from contaminating quantum dots. Heat carefully so that only a few atoms combine. Result: crystals small enough to be quantum dots. 

PHOTOGRAPH: NOW THAT'S PORTABLE SINGLE-ELECTRON TRANSISTORS HAVE ALREADY BEEN CRAFTED THAT, IN THEORY, MAKE IT POSSIBLE TO STORE 15,000 TIMES MORE DATA ON A CHIP THAT WOULD BE NO LARGER THAN THOSE PRODUCED TODAY PHOTOGRAPH: NOW THAT'S PORTABLE SINGLE-ELECTRON TRANSISTORS HAVE ALREADY BEEN CRAFTED THAT, IN THEORY, MAKE IT POSSIBLE TO STORE 15,000 TIMES MORE DATA ON A CHIP THAT WOULD BE NO LARGER THAN THOSE PRODUCED TODAY PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF LAGALLY GROUP/UNIVERSI 


Document bw00000020011013ds710013e


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 82 *******************    



LEISURE & ARTS 
Bookshelf 

The Illusion of Progress 

By Jim Holt 
929 words 
5 September 1996
The Wall Street Journal 
A14 
English
(Copyright (c) 1996, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Who is Darwin's most distinguished successor today? Most nonbiologists would probably say Stephen Jay Gould -- public scientist, prolific essayist, scourge of the creationists. Among Mr. Gould's peers, however, his stock seems to be alarmingly low. "The evolutionary biologists with whom I have discussed his work tend to see him as a man whose ideas are so confused as to be hardly worth bothering with," says John Maynard Smith, a leading British theorist. Another blunt assessment is furnished by E.O. Wilson, a colleague of Mr. Gould's at Harvard: "Steve uses the squid tactic. When attacked, he escapes in a cloud of ink." 

There are indeed irritating things about Mr. Gould's books: his cloying cuteness of style, his dithering on whether he is truly a Darwinist or not. "Full House: The Spread of Excellence From Plato to Darwin" (Harmony, 244 pages, $25) opens with the usual cataract of cliches from Shakespeare and the Bible and closes with a bit of speculative bluff. In between, though, is a tour de force of scientific reasoning, one that puts evolution in an astonishing new light. 

Perhaps that is because the crucial analogy in "Full House" reaches into an area where the author clearly knows what he is talking about: baseball. Why, Mr. Gould asks, haven't we seen a .400 batter these past 50 years? The disappearance of .400 hitting has been much examined by baseball pundits. Ted Williams, the last player to clear the mark, blames it on increasing mediocrity at the plate. Others cite the introduction of the sliding pitch, the bullpen, defter fielding, even night games (you can't hit what you can't see). 

The assumption shared by all these hypotheses is that hitting has not kept up with other aspects of the game. But if this is so, it's odd, as Mr. Gould observes, that the mean batting average in the major leagues has been "rock-stable" at .260 during the past 100 years. Something else must be going on here. 

It was while recuperating from a bout with cancer some years ago that Mr. Gould resolved the paradox. Propped up in bed with the "Baseball Encyclopedia," he calculated that a steady shrinkage in the variation of batting averages had taken place since the sport's beginning. In other words, the distance between the best and worst hitters had diminished, and in a surprisingly lawlike way. 

Thus the extinction of the .400 hitter, far from implying a slippage in standards, is a "necessary and predictable consequence of general improvement in play." As the bell curve of batting averages pushes against the upper limit of human ability, the curve's far right tail -- representing otherworldly averages like Ted Williams's -- gets squeezed out of existence. 

But what does this have to do with Darwin? Therein lies the genius of "Full House." The mystery of the disappearing .400 hitter turns out to be the mirror image of another mystery: Why does evolution seem to show a trend toward complexity? Natural selection is about survival, after all, and simple, tiny things are generally more durable and prolific than big, complicated ones. Though Darwinians have always grasped at the principle of progress, it is far from obvious why microscopic blobs should want to become artists and arbitrageurs. 

Well, they don't, really. What we are seeing, Mr. Gould demonstrates, is not a thrust toward complexity but a random increase in variety of form. Evolutionary spread looks like it has a direction because it is blocked on one side: You can't get much simpler than a bacterium. The progress of life is an illusion, like the degeneration of batting. Each arises from taking an extreme item -- the .400 hitter in one case, Homo sapiens in the other -- as a surrogate for the "full house." 

So far, so good. But then Mr. Gould takes a gratuitous whack at humankind's pedestal. It is very well for him to say that evolution has brought us not to the Age of Man but to the Age of Bacteria; these single-cell wonders, found in riotous profusion everywhere from our guts to (perhaps) Mars, may well outweigh all the other life in the universe. But it hardly follows that we humans are just a Darwinian fluke, an improbable accident. Mr. Gould has been making this claim of "radical contingency" for years. Whenever he does, a little ink cloud is not far off. 

It is true that a replay of evolution probably wouldn't produce a species quite as winsome as H. sapiens. But if we are talking more generally about intelligent, language-using, self-aware creatures -- creatures with minds -- then there are plenty of reasons to believe that natural selection will reliably deliver the goods. And most of these reasons are nicely set out in Daniel C. Dennett's "Kinds of Minds" (BasicBooks, 184 pages, $20). 

Having already grappled with the mind-body problem in "Consciousness Explained" (1992), the Tufts philosopher here offers a brisk survey of animal minds and proto-minds. Starting with the molecular "robots" from which all life is descended, he charts a series of small information-processing improvements that would lead inexorably to creatures able to reflect upon their beliefs and desires. 

And consciousness? That strange Cartesian substance disappears from Mr. Dennett's story of mind, much the way progress does from Mr. Gould's story of evolution. Which goes to show, I guess, there's more than one way to rewrite "Hamlet" without the Prince. 

Document j000000020011014ds9500ogt


More Like This

 Article 83 *******************    



What's News 
World-Wide 

World-Wide 

661 words 
10 October 1996
The Wall Street Journal 
A1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1996, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

GORE AND KEMP STRESSED economic policy and tax-cut plans in their debate. 

Republican Kemp asserted that the U.S. economy "is overtaxed, over-regulated, and too many people are suing each other." He presented the case for Dole's tax-cut strategy, claiming it would boost economic growth. Gore discussed the administration's limited tax-cut proposals, saying they would balance the budget without hurting popular programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. 

Gore repeated Clinton's pledge "to mend, not end" affirmative action. Kemp said the country must eliminate all racial quotas, which he implied were inherent in affirmative-action programs. 

--- 

Both parties were accused of "massive violations" of campaign-finance laws. Common Cause, a watchdog group, urged the appointment of an independent counsel to pursue criminal charges. At issue are the "soft money" accounts used to solicit large donations from corporations, unions and wealthy individuals. 

--- 

Burnings of black churches in the South are evidence of an alarming rise in racial tensions in U.S. society, federal civil-rights officials said. Officials of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, which held community forums on the church fires in six southern states, said the inquiry has shown that the incidents reflect a deeper racial problem. 

--- 

Doctors who treat AIDS patients said that nine months after widespread use of protease "cocktail" therapies for AIDS began, the use of expensive in-patient health services for AIDS seems to be dropping. It appears that the new drugs, while costly, may generate health savings that could offset their costs. 

--- 

Mexican investigators unearthed a body on the ranch of former President Carlos Salinas's brother Raul. They speculated that the remains may be those of Mexican congressman Manuel Munoz Rocha, who disappeared in 1994. Prosecutors allege that Munoz and Raul Salinas plotted the 1994 slaying of a ruling party official. 

--- 

Clinton signed stricter airline safety legislation aimed at protecting travelers from terrorism. The law calls for upgrading bomb-detecting luggage scanners, requires background and fingerprint checks for airport workers, increases the number of FBI agents assigned to counterterrorism and boosts air-cargo inspections. 

--- 

The Nobel Prize in chemistry was won by two Texans and a Briton for discovering the the family of carbon molecules informally known as "buckyballs." The Nobel physics prize went to three U.S. scientists for discovering that at extremely low temperatures a form of helium can flow without losing energy to friction. 

--- 

Mideast negotiators began a fourth day of talks at the Erez crossing between Israel and Gaza. The chief Palestinian negotiator said his instructions were "not to listen to any Israeli proposals that go beyond what had been agreed upon." Clinton's envoy at the talks, Dennis Ross, acknowledged that no progress had been made. 

--- 

Troops loyal to the ousted Afghan regime halted the advancing Taleban army, broke through its lines and pinned down some of its forces in fierce fighting north of Kabul, witnesses said. But officials for Taleban rebels, who captured the capital two weeks ago, said they were holding their ground. 

--- 

A Yugoslav opposition leader quit just 11 days after becoming head of the Zajedno coalition, which had overtaken President Milosevic's government in public opinion polls. Former national bank governor Avramovic said he was resigning for health reasons. His action came less than a month before national elections. 

--- 

Five African nations have expressed willingness to provide troops for a U.S.-organized force to intervene in humanitarian crises there, U.S. officials said. Separately, hundreds of African peacekeepers headed for western Liberia to clear out rebels blocking relief operations. 

--- 

The U.S. temporarily has moved more than 100 Asian immigrants from a crowded freighter to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. The Xing Da was found adrift last week off Bermuda. 

--- 

Died: Walter Kerr, 83, New York drama critic who won a Pulitzer Prize in criticism, in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., after a long illness. 

Document j000000020011014dsaa00quv


More Like This

 Article 84 *******************    



The road from serfdom: after being almost strangled by nationalization, France's Rhone-Poulenc is back on its feet as one of the world's great chemical companies.(includes related article) 

Howard Banks 
2,239 words 
21 October 1996
Forbes 
156 
Vol. 158, No. 10, ISSN: 0015-6914 
English
COPYRIGHT 1996 Forbes Inc. 

ONE OF THE MANY blunders inflicted upon the French economy by Socialist President Franois Mitterrand in the early days of his electoral triumph was the 1982 nationalization of Rhone-Poulenc S.A. Before nationalization, Rhine- Poulenc hadn't been doing very well. After nationalization it almost expired. 

By 1985 Rhone-Poulenc's sales had stagnated at around $7.5 billion a year. Earnings were just $250 million, a 3% net margin in an industry where well- run companies earn twice as much. There was talk at the Bourse that Rhine- Poulenc might celebrate its centenary by declaring bankruptcy. 

The Socialists didn't need that kind of embarrassment. To bail themselves out, in 1986 they brought in a new man to run Rhone-Poulenc: Jean-Ren Fourtou. Age 47 when he got the call, Fourtou was a nonpolitical businessman who was running Frances largest management consultant, Bossard et Michel. His clients included several U.S. and European pharmaceutical firms, but he had never run one himself. He was, however, acceptable to the unions that represented virtually all of Rhone-Poulencs 80,000 workers. 

The Elyse wanted Rhone-Poulenc salvaged and fast. It was a tall order, yet Fourtou has pulled it off. Sales have increased 2.5 times since Fourtou took over, to $17.3 billion last year. Profits have climbed over threefold, to $780 million. Three years ago things were going well enough that the government was able to re-privatize Rhne- Poulenc. 

Turnarounds like this don't happen by magic. Fourtou succinctly sums up his impression upon arrival: It was a disaster, he says, and that's probably an understatement. 

Long a heavily centralized and bureaucratized company, under the Socialists Rhne-Poulenc became even more so, with even minor decisions pondered at length by a rigid Paris-based corporate bureaucracy. Worker productivity was abysmally low. But top priority was preserving jobs, not increasing productivity. 

Heavily dependent on two lines of business commodity chemicals and textile fibers - Rhone-Poulenc was a prisoner of Europe's economic cycles. Yet there was no effort to break out of this prison. Little was spent on research and development, and not much on new investment. 

Fourtous first move was to push Rhone-Poulencs products into new geographical markets. Gallic to the core, Rhone-Poulenc then did only about 3% of its business in the all-important U.S. market. France alone accounted for over 40% of sales, the rest of Europe for much of the rest. 

In late 1986, less than six months after taking over, Fourtou bought Union Carbides agrochemicals business for $575 million. (The deal indemnified Rhone-Poulenc against any fallout from the 1984 explosion of Carbides plant in Bhopal, India.) The deal gave Rhone-Poulenc a solid U. S. marketing team. It also added insecticides, filling an important gap in Rhone-Poulencs product line. 

Perhaps most important, there was a psychological benefit from the Carbide deal, too. It was decisive, says Fourtou in his precise, fluent English. It gave me confidence for future acquisitions in the U.S. 

In 1990 he paid $1.7 billion for 51% of Collegeville, Pa.-based Rorer Inc., which made Maalox, the U.S. leading antacid. In a complicated pooling of interest deal this was later expanded to a 68% stake. The business has been renamed Rhone-Poulenc Rorer (RPR), but Fourtou was determined that the American company continue to exist as an independent firm with its own board of directors and headquarters in Collegeville. 

Fourtou came under intense pressure from the Socialists to headquarter Rhone- Poulenc Rorer in France, but he stuck to his guns. Maintaining the drugmaker as a separate company, he says, helped me a lot in decentralizing the rest of the group. Today 32% of RPRs outstanding stock trades independently on the New York Stock Exchange, where Rhone-Poulencs ADRs also trade actively (see box, .p. 158). 

Thanks to Carbide, RPR and a score of other, smaller, U.S. acquisitions, the U.S. now accounts for 21% of Rhone-Poulencs sales and this on a much higher sales base than in 1990. Meanwhile, sales in France have dropped to 22% of the total from 40% in 1986. The rest of Europe accounts for 32% (versus around 55% a decade ago). Latin America accounts for 10% and Asia around 7%. 

In broadening Rhone-Poulencs geographical base, Fourtou also diversified its product mix. When he arrived, over 80% of the company's business was done in commodity chemicals and textile fibers. Today chemicals and fibers together account for 45% of sales and 20% of profits. 

Replacing low-margin chemicals and fibers at Rhone-Poulenc are higher-margin pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals. Drugs for animals as well as humans now make up over 45% of sales and 70% of earnings. Their share will grow with the acquisition last year of British group Fisons for $2.9 billion-and with the continued growth at highly profitable Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, which earned $400 million last year on sales of $5.1 billion. 

Another jewel in the health products group is Pasteur Mrieux Connaught, the $1.05 billion (estimated revenues) world leader in vaccinations. PMC has around 32% of total world sales, according to Jean-Jacques Bertrand, chairman of PMC; its vaccines are used on 400 million people a year around the world. It's a growing business. Children will soon get a five-part vaccine, covering diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, polio and haemophilus infections. Future possibilities include vaccination against Lyme disease. AIDS, the holy grail in this sector, is getting one-fifth of PMCs research money. 

Under Fourtou, R&D spending has grown relentlessly, both in absolute dollars (to $1.5 billion last year) and as a share of revenues to 8% last year, up from 5% a decade ago. As a result of this investment in the company's future, Rhne-Poulenc has several new drug products, and more in advanced medical trials. Some examples: 

RPRs anticlotting drug, Lovenox, for use after hip replacement or knee surgery, has been in use in Europe for some time and is now available in the U.S. Annual sales could reach $500 million within three years. The Fisons acquisition adds $1 billion a year in sales in asthma treatments in what is a $12 billion-a-year world market. 

In partnership with Novo Nordisk, RPR is developing a hormone replacement therapy for menopausal women. The product will compete with Ciba-Geigys Estraderm and should do very well as female baby boomers pass 50. 

In a list of cancer treatment drugs, potentially the most important new product from RPR is Taxotere, designed to treat breast cancer (it is also designed to treat such things as lung cancer). Philippe Desmarescaux, Rhne- Poulencs group president of chemicals and research, and a Ph.D. chemist, says Taxoteres main rival drug, Bristol-Myers Squibbs Taxol, takes at least 3 hours and up to 24 hours to be injected, meaning discomfort and requiring expensive treatment in hospitals. 

Taxotere, says Desmarescaux, is more soluble as a result of work done by group chemists not part of the pharmaceutical operation. So it takes a one- hour injection in a doctors office and trials suggest it works better. Desmarescaux adds that Taxotere is aimed at a big market: Taxol sold $580 million in 1995. 

Drugs are not the only key to Rhone-Poulencs future. Also moving up in importance are agrochemicals. These currently compose 12% of Rhne- Poulencs total sales and nearly 20% of profits. 

Among the most promising agrochemical products: Fipronil, an insecticide for use in rice farming; and Balance, a highly effective herbicide aimed at U.S. corn growers. Rhne- Poulenc will market Balance in partnership with Monsanto or Ciba-Geigy. Alain Godard, president of RPs agro sector, predicts that these deux blockbusters and other new products will boost Rhne-Poulencs agrochemicals sales by nearly 15% over the coming five years, to nearly $9 billion. He predicts that the divisions profitability will nearly double, to a return on invested capital of 25%. 

In an important sense Fourtou does not see Rhne-Poulenc as a pharmaceuticals company or an agrochemicals company or a textile fibers company. He sees it as a company that spends a lot of money on basic chemical research that may lead to exciting new products that cannot easily be pigeonholed. The important thing here is creating technical partnerships with key customers, says Desmarescaux. Its different from traditional customer-supplier relationships. 

Some such partnerships and product breakthroughs are already at the commercialization stage. Take the so-called green tire developed with Michelin. This uses a new form of silicate to replace carbon in tires, while giving the same life but better gas mileage. Michelin has a three- or four- year lead with the new silicate, but Rhone-Poulenc can sell the material to other tiremakers. Now the group is working with Colgate to develop this same silicate technology to produce a better abrasive for toothpaste. 

Like most chemical firms, Rhone-Poulenc has for many years made titanium dioxide white pigment for paint and paper. Now, working with glassmaker Saint-Gobain, it has come up with a nanoparticle version. These ultratiny particles are transparent and, applied to glass, break down the bond of organic material when exposed to sunlight. So when a pigeon leaves his signature, a bit of sun and the next rain, the windows automatically clean, says Desmarescaux. 

These nanoparticles also block ultraviolet light, so they are also being developed to create a new form of sunscreen. Advantage: Because the material is inorganic, there is no risk of a skin reaction. 

When Rhone-Poulenc was reprivatized in 1993, the ADRs began trading at around $25 a share. Despite the huge moves made by the stocks of competing companies like Monsanto, Dow Chemical and Britains ICI, Rhone-Poulencs ADRs today trade at around $28-less than 14 times this years likely earnings. Partly this unimpressive performance mirrors the performance of the Paris Bourse, but it also suggests that investors have been disappointed in how long it has taken Fourtou to reinvigorate Rhne-Poulenc. Yes, its taken a long time, Fourtou says. But when you are betting on research and development, on innovation, it does take time. I believe we are just starting to see the payoff. 

What will the ultimate payoff be? Fourtou looks out his window on the banks of the Seine near Paris La Defense area. He starts talking about how much more cosmopolitan Rhne-Poulenc will become in the next ten year-show the company's French managers will interact with their American, British, Chinese and German colleagues. We face bigger cultural changes ahead than those that are behind us, he concludes. 

Then he answers the question. 

By 2002, Fourtou predicts, Rhne-Poulencs market capitalization will be five times greater than today's $9 billion. Is that possible? Compound annual growth of 22% a year for six or seven years? Fourtou replies: When I look at the potential from the new products like Taxotere, its not dreaming. I dare not really say it, but I really think it could be much more. 

His colleagues have every incentive to help Fourtou meet that goal. All senior managers at Rhone-Poulenc and at Rhone-Poulenc Rorer must own stock in their companies with a value equal to at least one years pay. 

Very un-French. Totally un-Socialist. 

RELATED ARTICLE: Two Ways To Play 

THERE ARE TWO convenient ways Americans can invest in the turnaround Jean-Ren Fourtou is forging at Frances Rhne-Poulenc. One is to buy New York Stock Exchange-listed Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, the Collegeville, Pa.-based pharmaceuticals maker. Rhne-Poulenc bought 68% of this $5.7 billion (likely 1996 sales) company in 1990. The other 32% of the stock, some 45 million shares, trade actively on the Big Board. Recent price: 733/4, giving the company a market value of $10 billion. Rhone-Poulenc Rorer (symbol: RPR) earned $2.53 a share last year, but higher-margin new products are expected to boost earnings to $3.60 a share this year and $4.10 a share next year. 

The other option is to buy Rhone-Poulencs ADRs, also on the NYSE. Currently $28 a share, the ADRs are priced at 14 times this years estimated earnings of $2 a share and pay a 2% dividend (the 15% French withholding tax can probably be recouped by most U.S. taxpayers as a foreign tax credit). Stock symbol: RP. 

Which is the better buy? Heres some math. Behind each Rhone-Poulenc ADR stands 0.43 of a share of Rhone-Poulenc Rorer. The Rorer operations account for about 45% of the French parents' earnings. So if you buy a Rhone-Poulenc ADR for $28, you, in effect, get $21 worth of Rhone-Poulenc Rorer plus other assets that have an earning power of about $1.10 per ADR. At current market multiples, these assets are probably worth at least $10 per ADR. The extra value you get when buying the ADRs should more than cover against foreign exchange fluctuations, or even a few riots in the streets of Paris. U.S. institutions had boosted their holdings from 27 million shares to 41 million by July. 

illustration photograph 


Document fb00000020011014dsal001et


More Like This

 Article 85 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
288 words 
4 November 1996
Business Week 
199 
Number 3500 
English
(Copyright 1996 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

- In a modern version of the stained-glass arts of the Middle Ages, researchers at Oak Ridge National Laboratory are making stained wafers--colorful disks of silicon, sapphire, or glass. The colors are a result of tiny ``nanocrystals,'' or clusters of a few hundred atoms of gold or other metals, that are planted in the wafers with an ion-beam system. Researcher Clark W. ``Woody'' White says the technology may pay off in the form of optical transistors and chips for a new breed of optical computer, promising speeds 1,000 times faster than electronic computers. 

- All the hoopla surrounding the Information Superhighway is more than just hype, judging from a study by the Center for Applied Special Technology, a think tank in Peabody, Mass. CAST compared the performance of fourth and sixth graders in 28 schools in seven cities, from Oakland, Calif., to Chicago and Miami. The schools were split evenly between those with and without Internet access. At the end of a course on civil rights, the students attending schools with online links scored significantly higher. 

- A multinational research effort involving the U.S. Agriculture Dept. and scientists in three other countries has scored a major victory. The team has found a gene in rye that could be transferred to wheat to produce a new strain able to grow on billions of acres worldwide where it can't today--because of aluminum in the soil. ``No plant likes aluminum,'' says plant geneticist J. Perry Gustafson of the Agricultural Research Service's Columbia (Mo.) lab. But rye has a gene that enables it to tolerate levels of aluminum that kill wheat. Researchers are working to transfer it to wheat. 

Document bw00000020011013dsb4003kl


More Like This

 Article 86 *******************    



The Property Report 

Workspaces: Nobel Niche 

By Terzah Ewing 
353 words 
6 December 1996
The Wall Street Journal 
B16 
English
(Copyright (c) 1996, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

A look at the places where businesspeople work 

-- WHO: Richard Smalley, 53-year-old professor of chemistry and physics, Rice University, and one of this year's winners of the Nobel Prize for chemistry. 

-- WHERE: 6100 Main St., Rice University, Houston. 

-- WHAT YOU SEE: At first, your typical academic's cubbyhole, its walls lined with titles like "The Most Beautiful Molecule." But closer inspection reveals a precise theme: homage to the buckyball, a carbon molecule no one knew existed until 1985. Dr. Smalley and his colleagues that year made the discovery that enabled them to snag the ultimate prize in science. 

Behind his desk rest several pastel-colored plastic tinkertoy-like models of buckyballs. A green and orange origami version, sent by an admiring stranger, adorns his computer. One bookshelf supports a champagne bottle containing 65-million-year-old buckyballs captured and bottled for Dr. Smalley by a geologist friend. 

Notably absent from among his assorted awards and degree certificates are signs of his latest honor. He'll get his Nobel Prize on Dec. 10. Dr. Smalley hasn't figured out where in the office he'll put the leather-bound certificate and a copy of the gold medal he'll receive. The real medal is destined for a safe-deposit box. 

-- WHAT HE SEES: "These days almost all of my time is spent in here, not in the lab. See that pile? That's unread mail, and I don't know if some of it will ever be answered. I look around and realize that the first thing I was supposed to do today, which was write a letter of recommendation, hasn't been done. 

"This office is the home of the discovery of the buckyball. The structure was conceived here back in 1985; we sketched it out on a chalkboard that used to be on that wall. We didn't know then that this molecule would be the harbinger of a whole new class of molecules. It's hard for me to believe sometimes how many other people are now researching this." 

Document j000000020011014dsc600x4f


More Like This

 Article 87 *******************    


INFOTECH SPECIAL REPORT 

WHAT IT'S REALLY LIKE TO BE MARC ANDREESSEN SURE, NETSCAPE'S 25-YEAR-OLD CO-FOUNDER IS THE MULTIMILLIONAIRE POSTER BOY OF THE INTERNET AND A GEN-X ICON. BUT YOUTH MAY BE NO ADVANTAGE IN A BUSINESS DOMINATED BY A 41-YEAR-OLD NAMED BILL GATES. HAS ANDREESSEN GOT WHAT IT TAKES TO COMPETE? 

RICK TETZELI REPORTER ASSOCIATE SHAIFALI PURI 
5,968 words 
9 December 1996
Fortune Magazine 
136+ 
Issue: DECEMBER 9, 1996 VOL. 134 NO. 11 
English
(Copyright 1996) 

To get a sense of New Lisbon, Wisconsin, all you need to do is drive up the Interstate from Milwaukee, turn off at the exit marked by the town's water tower, and read the signs. "Welcome to New Lisbon, the Friendly City!" exclaims the first billboard. The next is even more auspicious--an ad for one of the town's dozen or so churches proclaiming that "Jesus Saves!" 

New Lisbon (pop. 1,491) is a typical Midwestern town--small, friendly, slow. The passage of time seems measured less by season than by sport: football, basketball, baseball, and the wait for football again. On a Tuesday night in October, at least 150 people show up to watch the junior high football team play Bangor junior high. Sure, it turns out to be an exciting game--the hometown Rockets win in overtime after tying the score on the last play of regulation--but that's not the reason one-tenth of the population is here. "What else would we do?" asks one fan. "There's nothing else to do in New Lisbon." 

Nope--as in so many small towns, if you want to make it big, you split. New Lisbon's success stories are all somewhere else--Linda Balgord is starring in the road show of Sunset Boulevard, and Tammy Richmond is a Los Angeles physical therapist with the Oakland Raiders and other professional sports teams. 

Then there's Marc Andreessen, who seems to be everywhere but in New Lisbon. An Alta Vista search on his name in cyberspace turns up 7,488 links, including one to Kay's Bed-Cam, where Kay says, "I'm dreaming of marrying Marc Andreessen! (It used to be Bill Gates)." In the real world, Andreessen probably gets more press than anyone in the computer industry but Gates himself. He made the cover of Time at 24, a prime example of "The Golden Geeks." 

Just four years out of college, Andreessen is the main man behind the most dramatic shift in computing since the advent of the PC: the rise of the Internet. With his buddy Eric Bina, Andreessen wrote the first version of Mosaic, the browser that made the World Wide Web accessible. Then he and billionaire Jim Clark founded Netscape Communications. 

But now Andreessen, like Netscape, is at a turning point. The company took off by giving away its Navigator browser, an easy-to-use piece of software that makes the World Wide Web available to anyone, including computer neophytes. This strategy worked brilliantly: Spending little on advertising and marketing, Netscape placed Navigator on 45 million PCs and reaped tons of mind share. But the company's success led to an industry makeover. Sun, Oracle, Intel, and, yes, Microsoft began redirecting resources to create software based on Internet technology. 

According to Andreessen, Netscape, which made $7.7 million on sales of $100 million in its last quarter, is aiming for revenues of $5 billion by 2000. Given the competition, it will need a lot more than good PR to get there. It plans to grow by selling more software that runs in the guts of corporate computer networks, the so-called intranet infrastructure. The software will make it easier for employees to do such things as fill out medical forms, update a database of sales contacts, or collaborate on a presentation. Software, in other words, that's useful but not sexy. 

So it seems fair to ask sharper questions about Andreessen: Is this 25-year-old programmer who never took a business course in his life an asset to his company? Can he help Netscape continue its phenomenal growth at a time when its market has been invaded by Microsoft? Is he anything more than a one-hit wonder, the Golden Geek of the moment? 

The best way to answer these questions is to look back, both at Andreessen's past and at the computer industry's. Andreessen's career so far mimics the careers of two earlier Golden Geeks: Gates, of course, and Steve Jobs. Each worked with a partner to create a product that changed the course of the industry: Jobs and Steve Wozniak, a more technically sophisticated engineer, designed the Apple I and II; Gates and Paul Allen propagated the PC operating system; Andreessen collaborated with Bina, whom he credits with doing the grunt work on Mosaic. The partners are all on the sidelines now: Wozniak is out of the computer industry altogether; Allen owns an intriguing mishmash of companies but is hardly a central figure; and Bina, a Netscape employee, calls himself "just a computer programmer." 

Andreessen, then, is the partner who moved beyond the technology to seek a splashy business career. Whose path will he follow? Will he become another Jobs, who was never an adroit manager but who had the opportunistic touch and marketing sense to make himself hundreds of millions of dollars? Or does Andreessen have the single-minded drive to match Gates and make Netscape a software supercompany? 

The comparison Andreessen hears all the time, given the very public competition between Netscape and Microsoft, is the one with Gates. It's an analogy that leaves him nonplussed. He has never met Gates, and isn't sure he wants to. "Think about it," he says outside a Palo Alto coffee shop. "What would we talk about? His stock? My stock? He's got more. He'd tell me about his house. I'd tell him I've got a house too. Mine's a normal house." 

COUNTRY BOY 

Gates is a product of wealthy parents, private schools, and, briefly, Harvard. Andreessen comes from the middle class, public schools, and the University of Illinois. Gates's father is an influential lawyer, and his mother (who died in 1994) was a teacher and prominent community leader. Andreessen's father is a retired seed salesman. His mother works for Lands' End, the retail catalogue company. Gates grew up in suburban Seattle, in a culture where achievement was expected. Andreessen grew up in a little town where the quarterback was king. 

Unlike most of his friends, Andreessen had no interest in sports. "A sure sign," he says, "of someone who's going to leave and move to California." So he turned to the most interesting thing he'd read about--computers. He taught himself Basic by reading a book at the local library. He didn't actually get his hands on a computer until sixth grade, when he began using the school library's PC. Andreessen's first program was a virtual calculator that could do his math homework. But there was a problem. When the janitor closed up at the end of the day, he turned off the power in the building, wiping out the program. Andreessen's parents solved that prob-lem by giving him his first computer, a Commodore 64, in the seventh grade. 

"Marc had an intellectual capacity that could intimidate people," says Ken Adams, who was principal of New Lisbon High when Andreessen attended. Yet teachers and classmates say Andreessen also displayed qualities that to this day distinguish him from the average geek: a keen sense of humor, a likable combination of brashness and humility, and a curiosity that extends well beyond computer languages and operating systems. By all accounts, he was a good all-around student who did well in the subjects he cared about--computing and math, of course, but also history and English. Says classmate Clay Haschke, who is studying for a bachelor's degree in nursing at Viterbo College in La Crosse, 40 miles west of New Lisbon: "Marc just seemed to have a broader sense than the rest of us. Say we were talking about God or something. He would talk about it in a more complete way, with more than one view. And we'd sit back on our heels and say, 'Wow, oh yeah.'" 

THE FIRST STEP 

Andreessen has a voracious appetite. The thing he likes least about Palo Alto, his home now, is that "everything closes down around ten o'clock. It's hard to find a restaurant that's open. Your choices are Denny's: Denny's on El Camino or Denny's at Rengstorff." Andreessen is not credible when he complains about either Denny's: This, after all, is a guy who lives on French fries, chocolate malts, and canned delicacies like SpaghettiOs. More interesting than his penchant for junk food is his appetite for less tangible fare. A conversation with Andreessen jumps across a whole range of ungeekish subjects, including classical music, history, philosophy, the media, and business strategy. It's as if he has a hypertext brain, which helps explain why he got so involved with computers at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. That's where Andreessen first discovered the Internet, the medium that enabled him to travel so far beyond his small-town roots. 

It's easy to forget how cumbersome the Internet was just four years ago. A British academic named Tim Berners-Lee had invented the World Wide Web, allowing documents to be embedded with hypertext links that connected them to other documents around the globe. But the Web was not manageable. Users had to learn a variety of functions: FTP allowed you to download documents from another computer; Gopher helped you find documents; Telnet allowed you to log on to someone else's computer; and so on. "Internet software was ten years behind the hardware," says Andreessen. "I realized that we could pull the software forward a few years." In November 1992, he approached Eric Bina with a proposal--why not write a program that hid all those functions behind an attractive user interface? 

Andreessen and Bina worked for the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA), the University of Illinois's world-class computer research center. Bina, who had already received undergraduate and master's degrees in computer science from Illinois, was a salaried employee developing a program called Collage. Andreessen was an undergraduate who started out earning $4.50 an hour writing code for a graphics application called Polyview. Working out of small offices in the basement of the school's Oil Chemistry Building, the two wrote Mosaic at night and on weekends, whenever they could. Says Bina: "Sometimes we would work through the night and into the next day, and sometimes we'd work for three or four days in a row and then crash." 

Bina was the master programmer, while Andreessen, for whom classes became an afterthought, played team leader, bringing in other programmers to write versions of Mosaic for PCs and Macs (the original was for Unix-based workstations). "I really liked programming," says Bina. "Marc always had higher aspirations. He liked being in charge and directing other people, and he liked being the idea man. He told me that he'd be really upset if he was still programming by the time he was 30." Says Andreessen: "The only thing programming gets you is RSI, from all the typing." 

Andreessen and Bina completed the first version of their browser in six weeks. Its official name was NCSA Mosaic, and since both men were university employees, the code belonged to Illinois. It was a wisp of a program, a mere 9,000 lines of code, but Mosaic's simplicity was its charm. Suddenly the World Wide Web was accessible to everyone. Neither Bina nor Andreessen had any idea that the browser would, in essence, re-create the software industry. NCSA director Larry Smarr, who says he met Andreessen at the first demonstration of Mosaic in January 1993, thought otherwise. "When I saw it," he remembers, "I said, 'This will change the world.'" 

A ROUGH PATCH 

Mosaic was an immediate hit. Between January, when the first version was released on the Net, and December, when Andreessen graduated with his BS in computer science, millions of copies were downloaded by users all over the world. Andreessen talked with Smarr about how he could make a business of the browser. Smarr explained that while the university was glad to license code its employees had written, it did not have a system in place to incubate commercial companies. He told Andreessen he'd have to find his entrepreneurial niche outside academia. 

But the niche wasn't obvious to the 22-year-old. Back in 1993, the Internet seemed little more than a buzzword. The real money, experts said, was in interactive television being developed by companies like Oracle, Time Warner, and Bell Atlantic. "The Internet was a toy then, right?" Andreessen says. "That was when the whole interactive TV thing was peaking, one of those frenzies the industry indulges in when it loses sight of what's happening in the real world. So I wasn't sure about the browser." 

The only thing he did know for sure was that Mosaic was his ticket out of the Midwest. The boy from New Lisbon had grown disenchanted with Champaign. "Coming from Wisconsin," he says, "I thought Champaign was the big city. I was wrong. Champaign is cornfields and pig farms. If Champaign has a positive attribute, it's that it's so isolated and cut off that all you can do is work." Andreessen headed for--where else?--Silicon Valley, to write programs for Enterprise Integration Technologies, a small software company that had recruited him because of his work on Mosaic. Enterprise, which designed security software for Internet transactions, never made much of a splash; it was acquired a year ago by VeriFone. But Andreessen was free of Champaign. At this point his life resembled that of an average 22-year-old college graduate. He rented a cheap apartment. He bought a Ford Mustang. And he met his fiancee, Elizabeth Horn, a commercial real estate broker who had studied cognitive neuroscience at Pomona College. 

But then he received an E-mail message from Jim Clark, who had recently left Silicon Graphics after losing a fight over the direction the company he had co-founded was to take. Clark invited Andreessen to his house, just to talk. Then he took him for a sail on his yacht to talk some more. Clark was enamored of the idea of creating software for interactive television, and he thought the browser might serve as the interface for interactive TV subscribers. But as Andreessen explained the World Wide Web to him, Clark decided they should focus instead on browsers and servers for the Internet. Shortly after that first E-mail, Clark made Andreessen an offer he couldn't refuse: Let's start a company together. 

It's a moment that has taken on the status of Silicon Valley myth, even though Netscape, founded in April 1994, is less than three years old. Yet before the first version of Navigator could claim 75% of the market, before the IPO could make Clark the first Internet billionaire and increase Andreessen's net worth by $100 million or so, the two had to get through a rough patch. 

"You know," says Andreessen, "I try to keep emotions out of things, and I generally can, but this Illinois thing..." 

The Illinois thing is the bitter legal battle that he, Clark, and Bina (one of Netscape's first employees) fought with the University of Illinois. Officials there maintained that Netscape--originally named Mosaic Communications--was improperly using a name created at the university. The dispute was settled out of court when the university accepted a settlement worth far less than the tens of thousands of Netscape shares it had been offered at one point. The fight is over, but it's not forgotten. Says Andreessen: "They basically tried to shut us down. They started a campaign in the press to make us look like thieves. It was bizarre." 

Larry Smarr at NCSA professes no bitterness. He remembers Andreessen as "one of a long series of very bright students that NCSA has hired." Smarr says he looks back on the creation and spread of Mosaic with pride. "We changed the world," he says. "Our programmers formed a core team at Netscape. And it was our software, licensed by Microsoft, that allowed them to come to market so fast with Internet Explorer. The technology transfer from NCSA created the market, as well as the No. 1 and No. 2 competitors. We preheated the market by giving away Mosaic. There has never been a more successful example of technology transfer, in terms of creating a new market in the short term. We think of it as a model for the future." 

Maybe he should think twice--or three or four times. "There's a level of donation and contribution from me and from Clark and from others that {the University of Illinois} will never see," says Andreessen. "Over the next five years they will miss out on what would probably have been in excess of $100 million worth of contributions. That's a pretty big hit." 

MAKING IT 

If Andreessen seems a mite satisfied with how he's not spending his loot, he doesn't crow about what he does spend. "I was pretty comfortable before," he says. "I'm just sort of more comfortable." Let's define comfort: Over the past eight months, Andreessen has sold at least 500,000 Netscape shares worth $28 million. He still has 1.5 million shares, worth $82 million, in which he is 60% vested. And he brings home a salary and bonus, which he declines to disclose. 

He's not living ostentatiously, though--at least not in Valley terms. He bought a house to replace his apartment; a Mercedes to replace his Mustang; two bulldogs; a fancy stereo; a microwave; a new computer; hundreds, if not thousands, of classical CDs; and a couple dozen Polo shirts. Even with the new shirts, his attire is best described as frat-party ready. And, for the record, his eating habits remain pedestrian--he takes his French fries extra-crispy and prefers a chocolate malt to Chardonnay. Andreessen is incapable of what most people call cooking. "I can do Campbell's Chunky Soup, SpaghettiOs, Pillsbury cinnamon rolls, and cereal. The last time Liz went away, I couldn't find the can opener. So I went, like, five or six days and couldn't eat at home." 

Andreessen has yet to get the hang of a life of leisure. He keeps an engineer's schedule, waking around 10 a.m. and finally sacking out at 3 a.m., with a break from work every afternoon to walk his bulldogs: 2-year-old Lily, and Clayborne, a 6-month-old with "a destructive streak and a slight potty-training problem," says Andreessen. At night, after he and Elizabeth somehow navigate dinner, they might rent a video. Andreessen's into Steven Seagal, Steve Buscemi, bad B movies, and Jackie Chan-style Hong Kong flicks. He spends the hours after midnight reading and returning hundreds of E-mail messages. 

He's taken two vacations since starting Netscape--if you count a two-day trip to New Zealand last fall as a vacation. He and Elizabeth didn't check out weather reports, arrived during the rainy season, and flew back to California the next day. This year they stayed closer to home, renting a bungalow at a fancy hotel in Santa Barbara. Bob Dole happened to be staying there too. "I walked outside," says Andreessen, who worked most of the vacation, "and the Secret Service guys are hitting on Liz. I said, 'Aren't you supposed to be guarding the candidate?'" 

THE EDUCATION OF MARC ANDREESSEN 

Sometimes it's a struggle to remember that Andreessen is a businessman, responsible for providing the guiding vision for a $400-million-a-year company. He's supposed to be devising ways to beat back the evil empire in Seattle, and instead he's imitating the way his bulldogs pant, or explaining why techno-journalist/visionary George Gilder is like Friedrich Nietzsche, or telling you about the homoerotic motifs in the work of Hong Kong action-film director Ringo Lam. Sure, you asked him about this stuff, and sure, you asked for all this time with him, but...aren't industry leaders more restrained than this? Did Bill Gates ever behave this way? Is this 25-year-old really an asset to a company in need of discipline? 

To understand why the answer to that last question is yes, it helps to know what Andreessen does--and does not do--at Netscape. He is not a programmer; he hasn't written a line of commercial software code since late 1994. He is not a manager, since the only person reporting to him is his administrative assistant. And he does not hang out in an office; he doesn't even have his own cubicle at Netscape's Mountain View campus. His title is senior vice president, technology. He reports to CEO Jim Barksdale, 51, who defines Andreessen's role as Netscape's "principal technology visionary. Marc articulates in practical, pragmatic terms how his vision can become a real product. He's also a spokesman and an evangelist, and he does lots of sales calls and public presentations." 

Andreessen and Barksdale complement each other. According to Neil Weintraut, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist, "Barksdale is a mentor, providing strategic moderation. He has the credibility of the wise old man. It's not just that he has more gray hair; he also has a style that's very calming." Andreessen, on the other hand, is the Energizer Bunny. He does whatever he can to push Netscape products out the door as fast as possible. "Marc wants more sooner," says Debby Meredith, 37, who heads development of new versions of the Navigator browser. "He pushes. He'll say, 'Debby, the next version's gotta have this feature. You'll be a hero if you get this in.' And I'll tell him that it will impact the delivery date. And he'll say, 'Yeah, but you'll be a real hero if you get it in on time with that feature.' And I'll say, 'Yeah, Marc, and then there are the laws of physics.'" 

He can be just as pushy when it comes to marketing and strategy. His midnight E-mail often discusses tactics designed to stymie Microsoft. Says Netscape chief technology officer Eric Hahn, 36: "Marc is on the aggressive side, especially when it comes to Microsoft. He always wants us to announce products earlier than we do, his argument being that Microsoft is doing just that. They're announcing three- and five-year road maps, and we're announcing six-month road maps." 

Executives like Barksdale, Meredith, and Hahn are considered adult supervision at Netscape. The company has grown from 300 to 1,250 in a year, and many of the new hires have come directly from places like Stanford, Berkeley, MIT, and, yes, Illinois. Even though Andreessen spends most of his time with the old folks, he is one of the kids. His energy and accessibility make him an ideal bridge between the youths and the adults. Atri Chatterjee, 34, head of server product marketing, says, "I try to get everyone who's managing a product to meet him. He's very unassuming. I had him down to meet a bunch of new hires, and one of them came up to me afterward and said, 'Who was that? He looks really familiar.'" 

That's partly because Andreessen has performed so spectacularly in his role as Netscape's primary marketing image. True, Barksdale now gives the company an air of respectability--in this summer's rash of "browser war" stories, it was Barksdale, not Andreessen, who faced off with Gates. But Andreessen is the guy who made Netscape cool, and who continues to make the company's name synonymous with the Internet. Says Jerry Michalski, editor of industry newsletter Release 1.0: "Marc's a sort of folk icon among Gen X-ers and other young people turned on by the Web. It doesn't hurt that he made a fortune. He mixes youthful idealism with the capitalism that's in now." 

Andreessen clearly enjoys his press, even calling himself a bit of a "media whore." But he doesn't seem carried away with his celebrity. "The press has been a big part of our ability to market ourselves, and our ability to build a brand image," he says. "It's extraordinary that with hardly any advertising we've been able to do this much this quickly." 

A lot of what made Andreessen a phenomenon is the simple story of a kid who got rich quick. But those who have watched him closely at Netscape see an increasing sophistication. Says Bill Gurley, an Internet analyst at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell: "Calling him a geek or Webhead or poster boy is selling him way short. He's not married to technology the way a pure tech guy would be. He's into the business strategy, including marketing, positioning, and figuring out the best way for Netscape to win. He also has the curiosity that you see in many brilliant people. When Marc doesn't know about something he thinks he needs to understand, he gets a book and talks to people and learns. The guy has a knowledge base that's just incredible." 

While Andreessen didn't take any business courses at Illinois, he's been in a crash course ever since. "The stuff that interests me is business strategy and customers--how people are using the technology," he explains. "There's a triangulation between what's possible with the technology, what business needs people have, and what's actually practical. You triangulate on that, and that's where the sweet spot is for making a successful business and driving it further. That's the most interesting part." 

Andreessen's reading list consists mostly of books about business strategy and trade magazines he catches on the Web. Talking about Netscape's success, he recalls three books that an obscure government agency published on the growth of the electronics, railroad, and telephone industries. "There's very little here that's new in terms of the mechanics of growing a company," he says. Later, in a discussion about whether Internet stocks will flame out, he says, "You should check out Roger McNamee's article on the history of all this in The Red Herring {a technology magazine for investors} this month. He says that every major new wave of innovation in America has this frenzy of speculation." 

Andreessen's favorite subject is Netscape's strategy, which has changed radically since he and Clark got started. "It turned out that there are two primary opportunities for Netscape--one is Internet, one is intranet," says Andreessen. "Over the long term they become the same thing. But for the near term, the amount of money going into the intranet far outweighs what's going into the Internet--by three or four orders of magnitude." Netscape now positions itself as an intranet infrastructure company, seeking to provide software that runs inside your corporate network. That pits its products against Microsoft's Back Office suite of server software, and against IBM's Lotus Notes. "In the next five years every business in the world will be picking one of these three companies," says Andreessen. "We won't get all of it. My theory is that Microsoft and Netscape will be the dominant vendors, and Notes will have a niche." He predicts Netscape's share of the $10-billion-a year market in 2000 will be 50%. 

The strategy makes sense, but it doesn't make for good copy: A plumber is a lot less interesting than the leading light of the Internet. Andreessen says he won't miss the attention. "We'll get less sexy as a company. That'll mean fewer appearances on CNN. That's fine." 

GREAT EXPECTATIONS 

As Netscape tries to transform itself from an Internet startup to an established provider of corporate software, Andreessen seems immune to the pressure. "This is going to sound weird," he says. "But the gut-wrenching tension has decreased over time because survival has become less of an issue. Before you ship a product, you're operating on borrowed time and borrowed money. You don't have a business. All you've done may go up in smoke. You may not be there in three months. That's gut-wrenching. There's a good amount of pressure now, but it's not the same. If you put $200 million in the bank and do a $400-million-a-year run rate, you're not going to disappear overnight. You may be gone in 12 months, but not overnight." 

Asked if he would still be at Netscape in 15 years--Gates, after all, has run Microsoft since 1975--Andreessen pauses. "Fifteen years is an awful long time. If we are an independent company then, there's a good chance of it. But I would hope the company can do without me--I mean that in a nonegotistical way. At some point companies have to go on without their founders." That does, of course, beg the question of what's next. But Andreessen is more focused on two other time frames: the here and now, and the way far out. What's next is an open question. 

As for the way far out, he has plenty to say about it. One of his favorite novels is The Diamond Age, by Neal Stephenson. Its plot is built around nanotechnology, the science of manipulating individual atoms to build devices and circuits. Although nanotechnology is being taken more and more seriously, its possibilities seem positively chimerical. At its extreme, nanotechnology would allow us to create stuff--anything from a chair to a blimp--out of practically nothing. "So many of the things people do are going to be unnecessary when matter can be rearranged arbitrarily," says Andreessen. "I mean, this gets into all kinds of bizarre stuff. Immortality. There's no fundamental reason why the breakdown of cell structures is inevitable." 

He pauses to sip some iced tea, waiting to see if I've heard correctly. "There's no reason..." I begin. 

"There's no reason death should happen," he rushes on. "There's no reason decay shouldn't be totally repairable. There's no reason you shouldn't be able to design exactly the body you want." 

"Well," I say, "there's no reason I should be unhappy." 

"That raises a very philosophical question," he says. He seems exhausted, or perhaps disappointed by my skepticism. He slows down for a second. "Well, at the very least the concept of manufacturing goes away." 

It's one of those asides that make hanging out with Andreessen so interesting. But it also makes you wonder if this guy's too far out, too undisciplined, too young to keep Netscape in the big time. It makes you wonder if he can play in the same league as Gates. 

But Andreessen hasn't shown much interest in being like Bill--or Steve. When Jobs and Gates introduced their breakthrough products--Jobs's "insanely great" personal computer, and Gates's DOS operating system--they were already running their companies. Andreessen, on the other hand, doesn't want to run Netscape. That's Barksdale's job, and it leaves Andreessen free to do what he does so well: get people inside and outside the company inspired by the new products he thinks they need. He's also free to learn about the industry he's helping transform. 

At Apple, Jobs flamed out spectacularly after a brilliant start, giving way to John Sculley when the company needed a real manager. It's hard to see Andreessen following a similar path, since he hasn't shown much need to prove himself at things he despises, like football, or managing. 

As for Gates, well, Andreessen isn't sure the man in Seattle has a clear sense of the road ahead. "Microsoft is doing things that are not rational for a company in a leadership position," he says. "They define their culture as one where they deliberately try to destroy competitors as their primary way of doing business. The generally accepted strategy for a market leader is to grow the market, not to wipe out the remaining 10%. It may take years, but fundamentally their strategy is flawed." 

By then, Andreessen figures he may have other options. "You know," he says, "within 30 years someone's going to make a shitload of money in nanotech." 

REPORTER ASSOCIATE Shaifali Puri 

ANDREESSEN'S READING LIST 

It says a lot about how he's changed. He used to read history and philosophy. Now he's into digital Webzines, business tomes--and hours of E-mail. 

Inside the Tornado Geoff Moore 

The Prize Daniel Yergin 

Marketing High Technology: An Insider's View Bill Davidow 

Relationship Marketing: Successful Strategies for the Age of the Customer Regis McKenna 

Only the Paranoid Survive Andy Grove 

Hypercompetitive Rivalries Richard D'Aveni, Robert Gunther 

The Diamond Age Neal Stephenson 

MUSIC HATH CHARMS 

Andreessen began to appreciate classical music in college. "When you're paid $4.50 an hour, it's hard to justify buying crappy rock music CDs," he says. 

"Haydn" String Quartets Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart 

Suites for Solo Cello Johann Sebastian Bach 

Alexander Nevsky Sergei Prokofiev 

Symphony #5 Dmitri Shostakovich 

Les Quatre Ages Charles-Valentin Alkan 

Etudes Conlon Nancarrow 

Sonata in B Minor Franz Liszt 

Moto Perpetuo Niccolo Paganini 

String Trios, Opus 9 Ludwig van Beethoven 

String Quartets Franz Josef Haydn 

WWW.FAVORITES.COM 

Mosaic made the World Wide Web safe for technophobes. Andreessen uses the Web as a library, newsstand, CD store, and software outlet rolled into one. 

Wall Street Journal Interactive www.wsj.com

Amazon.com Books www.amazon.com

CNET's news.com www.news.com

quote.com www.quote.com

Microsoft www.microsoft.com

Quote: "Microsoft is doing things that are not rational for a company in a leadership position," says Andreessen. "Fundamentally, their strategy is flawed." 

SEE ALSO INTRODUCTION PAGE 135 OF SAME ISSUE 

COLOR PHOTO: ALAN LEVENSON As co-creator of Mosaic, the browser that made the World Wide Web accessible, Netscape's Marc Andreessen is behind the most dramatic shift in computing since the arrival of the PC {T of C} COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUIS PSIHOYOS--MATRIX {Marc Andreessen} COLOR PHOTO: ALAN LEVENSON CEO JIM BARKSDALE IS ANDREESSEN'S unofficial mentor. He even helped Andreessen name his bulldog, Clayborne. "Marc thinks stuff up," he says, "and I make it happen." {Jim Barksdale and Marc Andreessen} B/W PHOTO: MARCIA ADAMS--STAR-TIMES IN 1987 ANDREESSEN wrote a matchmaking program for his high school classmates. "All I know," says Clay Haschke, "is my date didn't work out." {Marc Andreessen as teenager sitting at computer} THREE COLOR ILLUSTRATIONS {Drawings of Netscape menus listing Marc Andreessen's reading list, listening room and favorite Web sites} COLOR PHOTO: MICHAEL GRECCO--SYGMA ANDREESSEN AND HIS FIANCEE, ELIZABETH HORN, share a Palo Alto home, a taste for B-movies, bulldogs (that's Lily, left, and Clayborne), and insane schedules. Says Andreessen: "She may even be more wired than me." {Elizabeth Horn, Marc Andreessen and two dogs} COLOR PHOTO: MICHAEL GRECCO--SYGMA A YOUNG MAN AND HIS DOG: Some people really do look just like their pets. {Marc Andreessen with bulldog} 


Document fortu00020011014dsc9000kr


More Like This

 Article 88 *******************    



In the Lab 

Membrane May Help Man Meet Machine 

By Dean Takahashi 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
902 words 
31 January 1997
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1997, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Jay Groves wants to make it clear that there are limits to his laboratory breakthrough. "Our goal," he says emphatically, "is not to stick a chip in your brain." 

His disclaimer says a lot about the implications of a discovery on the far frontiers of computer science and chemistry: a way to attach a living cell to a computer chip via a microscopic membrane. 

So-called biochips have been a staple of science fiction for years. William Gibson, author of the 1984 cyberpunk novel "Neuromancer," envisioned chips that could be plugged into someone's brain so that they could instantaneously catch up on their history or literature. 

But in real life, living cell membranes are notoriously slippery, amorphous things that can't be connected to the surface of a solid silicon chip. So three Stanford University researchers -- Mr. Groves, a graduate student, chemistry professor Steven Boxer and electrical-engineering researcher Nick Ulman -- have created a synthetic cell membrane to serve as a layer between chip and cell. Minute electrical fields help the silicon chip adhere to one side of the membrane, while a living cell sticks to the other side of the membrane. 

"The synthetic membrane fools the living cell into thinking [it's touching] another living cell," said Dr. Boxer, who teaches at the university in Palo Alto, Calif. "So the living cell will go ahead and attach itself." 

The researchers, no fans of science fiction, say they can't yet see the day when a "Six Million Dollar Man" starts flexing bionic muscles. Indeed, they are far from perfecting the tools that would allow cells and chips to "speak" to each other across the synthetic membrane. 

But their work does offer some more-realistic possibilities. For example, doctors looking for leukemia cells in blood could pour a blood sample over a chip with a patchwork of membranes and get their answer within seconds, as the cells in the blood were automatically sorted and identified. Since millions of cells could fit on the surface of a thumbnail-size chip, theoretically, millions of tests could be done simultaneously. 

Other independent researchers who have reviewed the Stanford process speculate that it could allow drug companies to perform, say, 10,000 blood tests for AIDS in the time it currently takes to do one, measuring changes in light or electrical forces. Another idea is to test new drugs on living cells, with the chip assessing the drug's effects on the cells. 

News of the Stanford research, which will be detailed in an article appearing in the journal Science today, has excited some researchers who ponder the "man-machine interface." Wentai Liu, a professor of electrical engineering at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, N.C., has helped eye specialists at Johns Hopkins University create chips with light sensors that can help blind patients detect shades of light. When inserted in the eye near the optic nerve, his chips send an electric signal over the tiny space between nerve and chip. A direct link between cell and chip could make the communication more precise. 

Dr. Liu considers the cell-membrane research a significant step forward in the science of bionics, or putting humans and machines together. "It's an elegant solution that could prove useful in our work," Dr. Liu said. 

The Stanford team's techniques "certainly offer a more stable way of attaching chips with hard surfaces to gunky biological cells," said Eric Drexler, a researcher at Palo Alto-based Foresight Institute who has long sought ways to develop tools to manipulate molecules and atoms, a science calls "nanotechnology." 

The Stanford research project, which is Mr. Groves' doctoral thesis, took several years of trial-and-error and false starts. Mr. Groves is a 26-year-old graduate student who has to brush aside long brown hair to look into a microscope. He experimented with samples of lipid molecules, which are common to all living beings and are easily pulled out of cells. In his experiments, he repeatedly scratched deep cuts into samples of the membrane with tweezers, watching the way it flowed into structures resembling cell walls. 

The researchers then found that a synthetic cell membrane would attach itself to silicon chip surfaces -- but wouldn't stick to other materials used on chips, such as aluminum compounds. Thus, by controlling the patterns of aluminum compounds placed on the surface of a silicon chip, the researchers could dictate where the membranes' molecules gathered on the chip, even if the sections were each a hundred times smaller than a hair's width. 

The scientists envision chips with sensitivity to light or electrical charges that would analyze the cells attached to the membranes. For instance, a cell might trigger a change in electrical charge that a chip could detect; the chip would then communicate the exact location of the cell to a computer. Researchers could use such a chip to perform experiments on individual cells. 

Tools like these, says Dr. Drexler, the Foresight Institute researcher, will ultimately pay off in bionics applications, like replacing damaged neural connections with chips that conduct signals directly to the brain. Dr. Boxer, however, is more circumspect. 

"We're not interested in fantasy," he said. "We're practical and we try to make things work on the physical level, not the hypothetical." 

Document j000000020011007dt1v003nr


More Like This

 Article 89 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

EDITED BY NEIL GROSS 
149 words 
3 February 1997
Business Week 
126 
Number 3512 
English
(Copyright 1997 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

-- Scientists have tried various methods to kill tumors by choking off their blood supplies. Now, researchers at Dallas' University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center are taking a novel tack: creating blood clots inside the tumor vessels. When given human tissue factor to stimulate clotting, 38% of the cancerous mice tested had complete tumor regression, according to the latest issue of Science. 

-- Western engineers have long praised Russian materials technology. To tap it, startup Synmatix Corp. in Southfield, Mich., is working with Los Alamos National Laboratory and three research labs in Russia to perfect a Russian process that yields superstrong metals. Squeezing metal powders with pressures of 400 tons per square inch breaks the particles into even finer pieces. When these ``nanopowders'' are formed into shapes, the parts are up to 10 times stronger than those made from ordinary metals and alloys. 

Document bw00000020011005dt230009f


More Like This

 Article 90 *******************    



Science & Technology: THE FUTURE 

THE NEXT WORLD ACCORDING TO CLARKE The 2001 author, who inspires physicists and engineers, imagines the fourth millennium 

By Steven V. Brull in Colombo, Sri Lanka, and Neil Gross in New York 
1,572 words 
24 February 1997
Business Week 
123 
Number 3515 
English
(Copyright 1997 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Frank Poole could scarcely believe his eyes. He had drifted, frozen in space, for nearly 1,000 years since HAL, the spaceship Discovery's errant computer, murdered him by thrusting him away from his ship. Now, revived by doctors and regaining his strength, Poole peered down from a room 1,240 miles above the earth. ``My God!'' he cried, looking out at a cylindrical elevator tower that tapered far, far below--all the way down to the African plain. Then, he turned his gaze upward, where the tower stretched to the geosynchronous orbit 22,000 miles high. 

A ``space elevator''? That's pure science fiction. And yet the scene from Arthur C. Clarke's new novel, 3001: The Final Odyssey (Ballantine), has an eerie and compelling plausibility. So do the ``brain caps,'' micro robots, virtual-reality vistas, and vacuum-energy space drives that crowd the pages of Clarke's latest--and last--Odyssey novel. 

Clarke's new musings on technology remain as intriguing as ever. And scientists are bound to take them seriously because Clarke's lifework, more than that of any other living writer, has blurred the line between what man can dream and what engineers can achieve. 

The monumental space elevator, fleshed out in Clarke's Fountains of Paradise in 1978, is just one example. The underlying physics ``is very good,'' declares Richard E. Smalley, a Rice University professor of physics and chemistry who won a Nobel Prize last year for co-discovering new carbon molecules called Buckminster Fullerenes. Strong, lightweight cables of the material would be ideal for building such elevators, he notes. Clarke's meticulous treatment ``reveals that he would have been a wonderful physicist and engineer,'' says Smalley. 

At his stately, high-ceilinged home in Colombo, Sri Lanka, a barefoot, sarong-clad Clarke plays down his role as visionary. Suffering from post-polio syndrome, which keeps him in a wheelchair when outside the house, the 79-year-old writer maintains a lively correspondence with scientists and other writers via E-mail. ``Much of my writing is anti-prophetic,'' he says, echoing a famous statement by fellow sci-fi luminary and longtime friend Ray Bradbury. ``I try to prevent the future.'' ALIENS. Perhaps so. But in advance of Clarke's latest novel, a host of respected scientists, engineers, and writers are saluting him for infusing science fiction with verisimilitude and helping to inspire real-world scientists. ``When you dream what is possible and add a knowledge of physics, you make it happen,'' says Charles Kohlhase, science manager ofNASA's Cassini Mission, which will launch an exploratory probe to Saturn in October. 

Many scientists respond to transcendent themes in Clarke's work, such as his leitmotif of evolution through contact with an alien intelligence. That, plus nuts-and-bolts accuracy, ``are a powerful combination that grabbed a lot of us when we were young,'' says David H. Grinspoon, assistant professor of astrophysical and planetary sciences at the University of Colorado. 

Not everyone will love the latest book. Readers and moviegoers who were entranced by 2001: A Space Odyssey may find that this sequel hastily ties up a few too many loose ends. Gone is the epic sense of mystery Clarke and film director Stanley Kubrick used to brand their vision of space exploration on the popular imagination. 

Transcendence, though, and whiz-bang technology, are here in abundance. In a nutshell: A space tug at the fringe of the solar system picks up what its captain thinks will be another piece of space junk. It turns out to be Frank Poole, who is revived from his cryogenic sleep. Poole's first task is to acquaint himself with the technologies and culture of the fourth millennium (table). Then, he heads for Jupiter to find former 2001 colleagues Dave Bowman and HAL, who have assumed a new existence as part of an enigmatic monolith. 

Casual glimpses of space engineering are a high point. That's no surprise: Most of Clarke's serious work for the past half-century relates to satellites and orbits. In 1945, a four-page article titled ``Extra-Terrestrial Relays'' in the British magazine Wireless World secured his influence. Clarke, then 27 and without a university degree, argued that it should be possible to blanket earth with signals from three communications satellites spaced apart in geosynchronous orbit. Coming 12 years before Sputnik, the article went largely unnoticed. Yet today, our planet is ringed with geosynchronous communications satellites in what some people call ``Clarke'' orbits. 

As an undergraduate at King's College, London, Clarke became enthralled with so-called libration points between two or more orbiting bodies, where gravitational forces cancel each other out. He proposed that systems comprising two satellites could be situated at such points to permit continuous contact with the far side of the moon. In 1966, his writing on the subject inspired a graduate student named Robert W. Farquhar. After corresponding with Clarke, Farquhar determined that a communications satellite could orbit a point in space--a ``halo orbit''--instead of circling a star or a planet. Today, a giant solar observatory is en route to such an orbit a million miles from earth. Says Farquhar, now director of the Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous Mission at Johns Hopkins University: ``I wouldn't have started on this thing if I hadn't seen his stuff.'' 

Clarke has received many such tributes. In August, 1992,NASA did experiments in space with a 13-mile long tether--a step toward building much larger structures. In the Atlantis' in-orbit press conference, the crew paid tribute to Clarke by flashing a copy of Fountains of Paradise. GOLD STANDARD. Then there's HAL, the H-euristically programmed AL-gorithmic Computer. His talents remain far beyond the grasp of modern computer science, but he's still the gold standard in artificial-intelligence circles. ``This kind of conversational metaphor for human-computer interaction dominates everything we do,'' says James C. Lester, an assistant professor of computer science at North Carolina State University. 

Clarke's commitment to realism stems from science training. After World War II, he took just two years to earn first-class honors in physics and mathematics from King's College. Then, he got the ideal job for a budding sci-fi writer: assistant editor of Physics Abstracts at the Institution of Electrical Engineers. It gave him access to the latest research, which had been squelched during the war, and established a disciplined respect for current findings, which he tracks via the Internet. 

Society has rewarded Clarke for his vision. The book 2001 has sold more than 3 million copies, and the film is shown regularly around the world. Ballantine Books Inc. gave Clarke an advance of more than $1 million for 3001, a record for a sci-fi work. His literary agent figures some 70 million copies of Clarke's books have appeared over his 50-year career. Eight of his novels have been optioned for movies, including The Hammer of God, which was snapped up by Steven Spielberg. 

Clarke's reward didn't depend on predictive accuracy. Like most writers of the '60s, he underestimated the impending microprocessor revolution. Nor did he dream up all of the ideas in his books. Artificial intelligence, brain implants, and even space elevators have precedents, which Clarke carefully lists in his novels' acknowledgements. Still, as celebrated Red Mars author Kim Stanley Robinson notes, the scientific rigor permeating Clarke's 80-odd works of fiction and nonfiction has made him godfather to a generation of ``hard science fiction'' writers. It hoists him above the popular--and wholly unscientific--genre of space fantasy epitomized by Star Wars. 

Clarke's work reflects his personal odyssey from math-and-physics major to penniless writer to well-rewarded visionary in a secluded paradise. While he still has a firm grip on life, Clarke has already composed his epitaph: ``He never grew up; but he never stopped growing.'' Clarke's ideas have helped civilization grow. Engineers will be mining his works for years to come. 

The Human Condition, Circa 3001 

What Frank Poole finds after his 1,000-year sleep 

HABITAT: Only 1 billion people inhabit the earth. The rest live in Star City, a giant ring in geosynchronous orbit around the planet, anchored to earth by four Space Towers that double as elevators. 

EDUCATION: Forget studying. Snap on a brain cap, calibrated to your individual capabilities, and download all the data and skills you need. 

CULTURE: 20th century religions are discredited as evil and irrational, but the concept of God persists. Circumcision and ``corpse food'' are out; vegetarianism is in. 

TRANSPORT: ``Inertialess'' drives--essentially, controllable gravity fields--whisk passengers to Star City in hours, and beyond to the outer planets. 

ENTERTAINMENT: In Star City's controllable gravity, you can don physical wings and fly through simulated landscapes, from Himalayan passes to prehistoric savannas populated by dinosaurs. 

CRIME: Braincaps keep almost all humans civil. A tiny minority of lawbreakers are put in psychic straitjackets and serve time as benign servants. 

Photograph: WARNING: ``Much of my writing is anti-prophetic,'' says Clarke, echoing a famous statement by fellow sci-fi writer and longtime friend Ray Bradbury. ``I try to prevent the future'' DOMINIC SANSONI 


Document bw00000020011005dt2o000in


More Like This

 Article 91 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

EDITED BY NEIL GROSS 
176 words 
5 May 1997
Business Week 
103 
Number 3525 
English
(Copyright 1997 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

-- High-quality digital cell phones are spreading quickly in the U.S. One drawback: They emit more powerful electromagnetic fields than older, analog phones, and thus present a greater risk of interference with pacemakers. About 10% of pacemakers have special filters to block EMFs created by analog phones. But these don't work against digital phones. So Maxwell Technologies Inc. of San Diego has developed stronger filters. It is shipping them to pacemaker manufacturer St. Jude Medical Inc. -- Optical sensors used in telescopes and airplane cockpits can burn out when they're exposed to strong pulses of laser light. To protect them, I.C. Khoo, an electrical engineering professor at Pennsylvania State University, is developing an unusual fiber. He fills an array of glass capillaries with liquid crystals and carbon 60 molecules, also called Buckminster fullerenes. Screens laced with such fibers will let a small amount of light pass through. 

But as soon as the light intensity exceeds a certain measure, the liquid crystals act as instant shutters. 

Document bw00000020011005dt550019u


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 92 *******************    



Special Report: Information Technology Annual Report: THE BEST LABS 

UNC: TOOLS TO MANIPULATE VIRTUAL WORLDS North Carolina's devices help visualize molecules or guide a surgeon's hand 

By John Carey in Chapel Hill, N.C. 
739 words 
23 June 1997
Business Week 
102 
Number 3532 
English
(Copyright 1997 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Floating before my eyes is a slice of an almost unimaginably tiny world. It looks like a pair of long, low hills rising from a featureless plain. But those ridges are actually ``buckytubes,'' soda-straw-like molecules thousands of times thinner than a human hair. And I can do more than just look. Thanks to an atomic force microscope, powerful computer-graphics equipment, and precision motors connected to a small joystick, I can ``feel'' every bump and dip as I guide a little red ball across the simulated landscape. I can even push the buckytubes around. 

When University of North Carolina computer scientist Russell M. Taylor first began developing this virtual reality ``nanomanipulator'' system, his physics department colleagues figured the new, more precise way to control the microscope would be a boon--but they weren't sure fancy real-time computer graphics were that important. Now, they're believers. ``We wouldn't have been able to do the experiments we've done without it,'' says UNC physicist Richard Superfine. He and co-workers have used the tool to probe the properties of buckytubes--and discover precisely how the surfaces ripple when the tubes are bent. 

The value of Taylor's 3-D window into the Lilliputian world of molecules also epitomizes the credo of UNC's vaunted Chapel Hill computer-science lab: Build visualization tools that are actually useful to someone else. ``It's too easy to fool yourself that you're making progress if you work just on your own problem,'' explains professor Frederick P. Brooks. 

That's why researchers Andrei State and Mark A. Livingston are working with doctors on an ``augmented reality'' system for doing biopsies of tissues such as breast or liver. Wearing a head-mounted display equipped with video cameras and linked to an ultrasound probe, a surgeon can ``see'' down inside the breast to a suspicious lump, making it easier to insert the biopsy needle in the precise location. ``It's like Superman's X-ray vision,'' explains Livingston. 

Other projects allow chemists to probe the interactions of virtual molecules, or enable engineers to ``walk through'' the engine room of a submarine. But they also put UNC computer scientists on the cutting edge of science and technology. Since the late 1980s, the lab has designed or built a series of world-beating graphics computers that construct realistic-looking images from millions of basic triangle shapes. Each chip board on the most recent machine, dubbed PixelFlow and licensed to Hewlett-Packard Co., can process up to 2 million triangles per second--and dozens of boards can be strung together to make what may be the world's fastest graphics machine. EXOTIC LOCALES. Powerful computers that generate realistic-looking scenes in real time, however, are only a part of the puzzle. In the dream of UNC's dynamic Henry Fuchs, computer technology will allow people to be ``present'' in a scene. High-resolution displays mounted in eyeglasses--not today's cumbersome headgear--could take people to exotic locales or offer crucial information to augment the real world. Soldiers' eyeglasses, for instance, could pinpoint mines or snipers, while surgeons could see deep into the body. 

But this will only work if the system is capable of tracking the exact position of the person wearing the displays. Otherwise, the simulated world won't match up with the real one and ``the perception of reality breaks down,'' Fuchs explains. So UNC researchers are hard at work on better tracking systems. One clever approach, pioneered by professor Gary Bishop, uses light-emitting diodes mounted in the ceiling that work like stars in a celestial navigation system. Another, still hush-hush until patent applications are filed, would employ imperceptibly flashing lights to help a computer calculate the position of the person illuminated by the flashes. 

Fuchs can't predict whether virtual reality will be a revolution or a bust. ``It's not clear if we can do it--or if it's worth doing it,'' he admits. But UNC's computer lab, he says, is betting that it will be. Says Fuchs: ``We are trying to make 3-D dreams come true.'' 

Photograph: 3-D WINDOW: ``Buckytube'' molecules can even be ``felt'' WILL McINTYRE 


Document bw00000020011005dt6n001wf


More Like This

 Article 93 *******************    



Special Report: Information Technology Annual Report 

INTRODUCTION: INTO THE WILD FRONTIER 

BY NEIL GROSS With Julia Flynn in Edinburgh, Otis Port in Redmond, Wash., and bureau reports 
4,062 words 
23 June 1997
Business Week 
72 
Number 3532 
English
(Copyright 1997 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Back in 1979, if you had visited Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center, you would have literally seen the future of computing. The precursor of Windows. The computer mouse. The laser printer. And a local-area network, newly dubbed Ethernet. If you had then broadened the tour, scientists at AT&T Bell Labs and IBM could have given you a spiffy prediction about digital phone switches and computer memory, anticipating developments that arrived just this year. 

Ah, but you didn't make those visits, and now the opportunity of a lifetime has passed. Or has it? The world has changed a lot since then. Computer skills are much more diffuse. Exotic new technologies abound. But one thing remains true: In a handful of the world's outstanding computer labs, the shape of tomorrow is as plain to see as it was 20 years ago. What those labs are doing now will set the agenda for computing over the next 15 to 20 years. 

During the past two months, the BUSINESS WEEK technology staff canvassed computer-science leaders to identify the top labs. And a team of a dozen reporters went to the labs to see what the future holds. These are their dispatches from the digital frontier. 

The heads of America's hottest computer companies fight over browsers, operating systems, and ``network PCs.'' But if you wander through the world's top-ranked computer-science labs--the ones at Carnegie Mellon, Stanford, MIT, and the like--creative minds don't dwell much on who rules the ``desktop,'' with its tired metaphor of windows, folders, fonts, and trash cans. 

What do the world's leading computer scientists focus on? Strange pursuits. John H. Holland at the University of Michigan ponders how ants manage their colonies when there is no central, organizing authority. David Gelernter at Yale University tinkers with ``lifestreams''--rushing rivers of data that can store an individual's total creative outpourings. At the University of Washington's Human Interface Technology Laboratory (HITLab), Thomas A. Furness devises tools to let people illustrate points in a conversation by materializing 3-D images in space. 

These startling activities are by no means random. In 15 years, or maybe 20, such projects will bear concrete results--some of them as predictable now as personal computers were to visionaries who visited Xerox Corp.'s Palo Alto Research Center in the late 1970s. Peering into the future, researchers don't obsess over compressing bits or cramming things onto disks. Their projects presume a world of nearly infinite digital storage space, processing power, and transmission capacity. 

Many of these scientists believe computers of the future will be patterned, at least in part, on living creatures. These machines will draw much closer to humans than computers based on the old desktop metaphor. They'll respond to our voices and extend our senses. They'll simulate complex phenomena--weather patterns, stock market crashes, environmental hazards--solving problems and predicting outcomes at a price anyone can afford. Computers, if they even retain that moniker, will tend our children, meld with our flesh and blood, heal the sick, and restore eyesight to the blind. 

Computers--or networks of them--will become ubiquitous, most digital pioneers agree, as they are invisibly embedded in other things. These machines will reconfigure themselves when new applications are required. And they may even communicate among themselves in languages for which no human ever wrote code. 

Indeed, among some scientists, a whole new metaphor for computing is taking shape, patterned on the natural resilience and elegance of biological organisms. Electrical engineers and software wizards extol the astonishing ease with which living systems process staggering volumes of sensory data. 

On this model, researchers say, machines of the future will learn to diagnose, repair, and even replicate themselves. There isn't much choice. Computing devices and the networks that link them will be far too complex for lumbering humans to monitor or manage with precision. ``The biological metaphor is rich, rich, rich,'' says Michigan's Holland, pioneer of evolution-based mathematical formulas known as genetic algorithms. ``EXPLOSIVE GROWTH.'' Why do we know all this is coming? Two reasons. First, because we can bank on the same forces that unleashed the PC revolution 25 years ago: shrinking silicon circuits and faster communications infrastructure. ``The pace of change is actually accelerating now,'' says Richard Howard, director of wireless research at Lucent Bell Laboratories. In the next two decades, ``we'll see explosive growth of communications, computing, memory, wireless, and broadband technology.'' 

The other reason we can divine future trends is that the seeds are already widely sown--both in the market and in dozens of computer research labs. Invisible computers? Chipmakers ship about 3.5 billion of those every year in the form of embedded or ``real-time'' processors. That's nearly 50 times the number of microprocessors sold in boxes with keyboards and monitors. An economy-class car has a dozen hidden microprocessors controlling the engine, brakes, and other systems. A Mercedes has about 60. Reconfiguring machines? That's what field-programmable gate arrays are. They're on the market now--though engineers have barely begun to tap their power. 

Even computers that become part of our bodies are not so far-fetched. According to Peter Cochrane, head of research at British Telecommunications PLC, surgeons have performed about 17,000 cochlear implants on patients with hearing loss. ``These people are already walking around with chips in their heads,'' he says. 

All of this is on the street right now. But it pales beside what's in the labs. Driven to create a display technology more ``organic'' than a computer monitor, Furness of the University of Washington's HITLab has developed a so-called retinal display. It ``paints'' pictures directly on the eye by modulating a stream of photons from light-emitting diodes and scanning them across the retina. The mind perceives these scans as vibrant color pictures. 

HITLab's goal was a better mode of visualizing data. Then, serendipity entered the picture. ``We've found that people who have inoperable cataracts can see with this machine,'' says Furness, ``because we're bypassing the optics of the eye and going directly to the retina.'' These findings are preliminary, and the equipment takes up a lab bench. But Furness expects to see commercial systems in about three years. Portable or implantable versions in high-definition ``are definitely within a 15-year time frame,'' Furness says. MINOR MIRACLE. Breakthroughs of this sort are all rooted in what Howard of Bell Labs calls third-stage innovations. The term refers to complex technology that's deftly disguised in simple applications. Today, when the grocery store scans your credit card, a minor miracle occurs: The clerk gets confirmation in a few seconds. How is that possible? ``Because it doesn't go through the phone system,'' says Howard. ``You've thrown a few dozen bytes of packet data into the air. It gets picked up by the router at the bank, and goes instantly into the bank computer. It's invisible and pervasive and very, very complicated--but to you, it looks simple.'' 

Auto-navigation guides require equally advanced and invisible technology. For $150, you can install a global-positioning satellite system in your car that measures precise time signals received from three satellites, so a processor can pinpoint your location on a digital map stored on a CD-ROM. Soon, the electronics for such systems will be on a single, embedded chip that will cost just a few bucks. Then, your cellular phone or personal digital assistant ``will know where it is at all times and be able to query the Net for local weather reports and restaurant guides,'' says Internet pioneer Vinton G. Cerf, MCI Communications Corp.'s senior vice-president for Internet architecture and engineering. 

This process--the commoditization of ultrahigh technology--opens spellbinding opportunities for new consumer-electronics products. British Telecom thinks future generations of portable phones could be installed right in your ear. While talking, the user could also glimpse images or data that are pulled invisibly off the Internet and projected onto a magnifying mirror positioned beside one eye. IBM has demonstrated a ``personal area network'' (PAN) that lets two businessmen exchange a calling card's worth of personal information simply by shaking hands. Both must carry card-size transmitters and receivers. Their handshake then completes an electric circuit, and each person's data is transferred to the other's laptop computer. 

As high technology, inexorably, becomes a game of miniaturization, mathematics, and silicon expertise, companies we do not now recognize as computer players can gain leverage. Philips of the Netherlands, for example, is developing its own, PAN-like products aimed at consumers. One example: a ``hot badge'' in which users input personal likes, dislikes, or their philosophies of life. The badges exchange signals with one another on the street, at a party, or in a bar. When two people with similar tastes meet, both badges light up. ``Not everything that's possible is desirable,'' concedes Stefano Marzano, senior director of Philips Design in Eindhoven, Netherlands. But in a world where nearly any type of gadget is possible, ``our technical advantage is our ability to imagine.'' 

These concepts appeal because they are playful. But the more urgent issue, most scientists agree, is making such devices more natural to use. As a ``user interface,'' 2-D computer screens get a hearty thumbs-down from many digital visionaries. And window-based menus don't help much. Trying to be all things to all people, pull-down menus are stuffed with so much information and so many options that your vision is constantly fixed on narrow details. Xerox PARC Director John Seely Brown compares the feeling to ``walking around with toilet-paper tubes taped to your eyes.'' Without a peripheral view of your data, you get blindsided when new information turns up suddenly. 

PARC has devised a different approach, which it calls ``calm computing.'' Its engineers are developing new interfaces that engage a user's peripheral vision and make good use of psychology. For example, there's a ``hyperbolic browser'' that causes database trees to come alive on your screen. No more mazes of icons. Using it is like seeing into your computer's mind through a fish-eye lens. Navigate to the right with your mouse, and information on the periphery moves to front and center. 

Even this approach, however, doesn't take full advantage of a human's cognitive machinery. John Gage, chief science officer at Sun Microsystems Inc., believes computer interfaces will eventually draw on multiple sensual inputs to convey much more information than a 2-D screen. To execute fast trades in a busy market, for example, Wall Street hotshots may one day sit at a computer that emulates an automobile driver's seat. 

There, the continual flux of data on corporate results, stock prices, interest rates and other macroeconomic information could be represented in multisensual data streams. In the real world, as you drive, you feel the car bounce, your body shifts, you accelerate into a turn, there's a blast of wind, the sound of the engine--a hundred things you monitor, almost passively, says Gage. Each of these sensations can stand for something. In contrast, he says, with today's computers, ``all you have is your eyes.'' 

At MIT's Media Lab, Hiroshi Ishii is already developing a multisensual computing environment, which he calls an ambient room. It uses shadows flickering on a wall or background noise such as raindrops falling in a pool to alert the occupant about some relevant activity without intruding. So a stockbroker might track the volume of shares being traded on NASDAQ through the sound of rainfall, which would grow louder and faster as trading volume increases. The trading in a particular stock might be linked to a shadow pattern on the wall, so the broker could tell at a glance how active it is. DIGITAL PETS. To make these interfaces come alive, engineers will depend on a new generation of intelligent ``agents.'' These are bits of software that can carry out your bidding by scanning your E-mail for important messages, say, or roaming the Net and alerting you when there is news on a topic you've asked them to monitor. Crude versions of these programs have been on the market for several years. The next generation, far more powerful, will help customize how you interact with your computer. 

Researchers at Fujitsu Ltd., Japan's largest computer company, have spent more than a decade trying to make agents more lifelike. Collaborating with Carnegie Mellon University, they have developed 3-D animated characters that ``live'' and evolve in a computer's memory. In March, Fujitsu released its first commercial product: a CD-ROM-based character called Fin Fin that resembles a dolphin and exhibits qualities of a household pet. Over time, Fin Fin learns the sound of its owner's voice, transmitted through a microphone. It comes when you call and accepts digital ``food.'' 

The technology behind Fujitsu's digital pet is called artificial life, or a-life--a branch of computer science that dates to the early 1950s. It began with simple programs called cellular automata, which created interesting patterns on computer screens by merging, mutating, and evolving. Later, scientists such as the University of Michigan's Holland realized that they could channel this evolutionary process to create models of events in the real world and to solve mathematical problems. 

Holland's semi-random evolutionary programs, called genetic algorithms, are used in industry to improve scheduling and logistics in manufacturing facilities, among other things. And new biologically inspired approaches to computing now thrive in laboratories around the world. The laboratory of Daniel Mange, head of the Logic Systems Laboratory at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, is developing an electronic watch that repairs itself. The rudimentary prototype, called a biowatch, does this by shifting tasks among six redundant silicon cells, each of which contains the full programming of the watch--just as each animal cell contains the full genome. Over the next 10 years, Mange hopes to perfect integrated circuits that both self-repair and self-replicate. ``We are a kind of god of nature,'' he laughs. 

Fujitsu's notion, exemplified in Fin Fin, combines aspects of a-life and intelligent agents to create gentle, fanciful, or cuddly user interfaces for computers. The agent element would execute the user's instructions; a-life would allow it to evolve and adapt to the user's tastes. 

Such a combination could be an ideal way to maintain a friendly face on powerful machines that are growing increasingly complex. And agents such as Fin Fin will be even more compelling when such creatures move from 2-D screens into virtual reality. 

This evolution may not sound appealing, given the uncomfortable headgear and grainy displays that mar many of today's VR systems. But as more processing power and memory get squeezed into smaller devices, the technology will become more inviting. In education, VR tools will let children learn things through experience that were once accessible only through books or films. To teach children the relationship between planets in the solar system, for example, the University of Washington's HITLab envisions a simulation in which the user grows to a height of a thousand miles and strides through the solar system at the speed of light. VIRTUAL TOUCH. If you think of this as a game, researchers won't take offense. It's the game industry, after all, that created the economies of scale needed to make high-end graphical computing available to everyone. Millions of children clutching Sony Corp. PlayStations and Nintendo 64 consoles now know more about simulated worlds than most of their parents. The next hot VR technology to be commoditized by games is so-called force feedback, or virtual touch. Manufacturers are releasing steering wheels and joysticks for PC games that resist when you take a sharp turn or fire a missile. ``Adult'' applications are the next logical outgrowth--as soon as sensors and processing power are cheap enough. Sex, after all, was an important driver of earlier technologies, such as VCRs, CD-ROMs, and electronic commerce. 

In 15 years, VR simulations will be woven deeply into education and job training, according to Anita K. Jones, professor of computer science at the University of Virginia. Jones should know. She spent most of the past four years as director of Defense Research & Engineering at the Defense Dept., where she oversaw all science and technology development projects. The military invented high-fidelity simulations for flight training. And it still bankrolls the most cutting-edge applications. To train soldiers in decision-making, for example, the Army has been known to square entire tank batallions off with simulated forces on virtual battlefields. The behavior of simulated enemy tanks is so realistic that soldiers can't distinguish them from human- driven foes. 

Exercises of this sort require staggering processing power--beyond the reach of academic labs. But with price reductions pushed by games, high-end simulations will soon be widely available. ``The boundary between training and doing will disappear,'' Jones predicts. 

While high-fidelity simulation changes how we view the world, tiny devices called micro-electro-mechanical systems, or MEMS, will transform how the world responds to us. The best example of MEMS, which combine actuators with sensors and computation, is the device in a car that detects abrupt deceleration, recognizes it as a crash, and inflates an air bag. Scientists at Xerox PARC believe MEMS could be the key to self-repairing machines. ``If you place a heavy weight on a steel beam, it will eventually fail by buckling or bending,'' says Mark Weiser, PARC's chief technologist. ``But if you could cover the beam with microsensors and actuators that notice the bending begin, then push back very slightly before it gets very far, the beam can support 10 times more weight.'' MANY TECHIES. Trends such as this in electronic components are easy enough to predict. Abrupt innovations are harder to anticipate--and are playing an ever greater role in technological evolution. Why? Frontline computer expertise is now widely diffused. Asked to rank the top labs in an informal BUSINESS WEEK poll, a broad group of computer scientists predictably saluted Carnegie Mellon, Stanford, and MIT. But lesser-known programs at the University of North Carolina and Michigan also got high marks, as did the University of Edinburgh and British Telecom's computer-science lab. ``In the last 20 years, the number of computer-science PhDs has risen from about 100 to 1,000 per year,'' Says Randy H. Katz, chairman of the University of California at Berkeley's Computer Science Div.: ``They couldn't all get jobs at the six leading labs, so they went to work in a wide range of universities, industrial labs, and small companies.'' 

This diffusion of computer expertise will speed the quest for new metaphors in computing. So will fast communications and the freewheeling scientific anarchy of the World Wide Web. Online forums on the Internet, for example, take credit for the rapid standardization of the virtual-reality modeling language, or VRML, used to create 3-D worlds on the Net. Scientists now have vastly expanded avenues for collaboration. And while they disagree about how to achieve new models for computing, few would question the need for change. Throughout the industry, there is palpable impatience with systems and networks that crawl--and crash. ``As a heavy user of computers, I hate them,'' says Yale's Gelernter. ``As a computer-science person, I'm outraged by the quality of the software.'' 

Even Microsoft Corp.'s top science maven, Nathan P. Myhrvold, seems weary of the the PC's limitations. ``The rudest thing about computers is that they only do exactly what we tell them to do,'' he says. ``If people were as rude--that precise and specific--we wouldn't marry or keep jobs.'' 

Microsoft is doing everything in its power to change that. The company is frantically beefing up its Microsoft Research staff, which will triple in size, to 600, by the year 2000, says Myhrvold. Even competitors tip their hats to William H. Gates III's recruiting strategy, which netted Gordon Bell--father of the minicomputer at Digital Equipment Corp.--and a dozen other household names in the industry. 

Microsoft won't voluntarily pull the plug on its Windows franchise. At the same time, it can't buck the trend toward intuitive computing that has taken such firm root in the world's top labs. If a breakthrough--or sheer increases in processing power--lead to superior interfaces, Microsoft will be forced to follow the market. 

Will computers ever behave more like living creatures? Can they aspire to even primitive consciousness? Michigan's Holland says it can't be ruled out. With the most complicated computers we have today, he says, ``the typical element [on a chip] will contact up to 10 other elements.'' In the human central nervous system, the equivalent element contacts about 10,000. The difference is three orders of magnitude--a number that has significance in academic circles. ``There's a kind of aphorism: Any time you jump three orders of magnitude, you have a whole new science,'' says Holland. As we move toward billions of elements on a chip, the boundaries that separate us from machines will continue to blurr. ``It's beyond our realm to say that machines of such enormous complexity can't be conscious,'' says Holland. 

As these machines move more seamlessly into our lives, our bodies, and our thoughts, the very notion of a ``computer''--with its manuals, glitches, and crashes--may recede to a memory. 

Computing in 2012 

A glossary of the terms you will need to know to discuss postmillennial info tech: 

ARTIFICIAL LIFE, OR A-LIFE Digital creations that are born, live, replicate, and die in computer-generated environments. (See Genetic Algorithm.) 

AVATARS Software representations of computer users as they appear to others in shared virtual spaces. May physically resemble a human--but that's up to the user. 

BUCKYBALLS AND BUCKYTUBES (ALSO CALLED FULLERENES) Superhard carbon molecules, shaped like spheres and tubes, that are key materials in nanotechnology. Some resemble the geodesic domes of H. Buckminster Fuller. 

COMPLEX ADAPTIVE SYSTEMS Systems consisting of many individuals or ``agents'' that interact with one another, learn, and behave in unpredicted ways. Typical examples: ant colonies, the stock market, the immune system, and simulated ``swarms'' of agents. 

EMERGENT BEHAVIOR The unpredicted results--good or bad--that arise from the interaction of agents in complex systems. 

FIELD-PROGRAMMABLE GATE ARRAY (FPGA) Extremely versatile type of custom chips that can be reprogrammed repeatedly for new applications. 

FORCE FEEDBACK The next big thing in virtual reality. It's a simulated condition in which computer controllers or other parts respond to touch with a touch of their own--such as a steering wheel that jumps with each bump in a virtual road. 

GENETIC ALGORITHM A mathematical formula--usually generated through random, computer-generated mutations--that can evolve and adapt. The algorithms can be generated as parallel ``solutions'' to problems. Then poor solutions ``die off,'' leaving the more efficient ones. 

INTELLIGENT AGENTS Software programs that autonomously do the user's bidding, such as finding data or sorting E-mail. More sophisticated versions can be dispatched across networks. 

INTERFACE Whatever a computer user looks at, talks to, or manipulates to control the machine. Windows 95 and Netscape Navigator are the dominant graphical interfaces today. In 15 years, sound and touch will play a larger role. 

NANO- One billionth. In other words, extremely small or fast, depending upon what follows. ``Nanotechnology'' refers to useful structures small enough to be measured in nanometers. 

REAL TIME Responding to constantly changing circumstances with the shortest possible delay. Chips that manage processes on an assembly line, for example, are called ``real-time'' controllers. 

Photograph: NEW LOOK: Viewing molecules in 3-D at the University of North Carolina (BOTTOM) PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL McINTYRE Photograph: ALL EARS? Robots at the University of Edinbugh respond to sights and sounds PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS McGREGOR 


Document bw00000020011005dt6n001wx


More Like This

 Article 94 *******************    



Putting Mount Everest into an anthill. (exotic data storage techniques) (includes related article on holographic data storage)(Forbes @ 80) (Technology Information) 

Mark Halper 
2,211 words 
7 July 1997
Forbes 
208 
Vol. 159, No. 14, ISSN: 0015-6914 
English
COPYRIGHT 1997 Forbes Inc. 

GORDON MOORE HAD CHIPS, not disks, in mind when he talked about the rhythmic doubling of power. But his law also holds true in magnetic disk storage. A home computer you buy today is going to come with two gigabytes of disk memory, compared with the 10-megabyte disks on those IBM XTs of the early 1980s. As it happens, the huge capacity gain over the intervening years has worked out to a doubling not quite every two yearscomparable to the growth rate in the transistor count on chips (see p. 172). 

Whatever the disk drive engineers cook up, we find ways to fill the space. So what are we going to do when the magnetic hard drive can deliver no more? We will have to move on to more exotic technologies. While the immediate future still holds a magnetic pull, dazzling new technologies will eventually have to take over. They could be optical disks, holographic crystals, nomadic atoms or something not yet even dreamed of. 

The demand is plain to see. As the global economy careers ahead on a digital path, it is creating a data colossus. Companies are digitizing everything they can: tabular information on sales, stock prices, customer profiles, market trends and the like. They are also transforming faxes, photos, blueprints, videos, engineering diagrams and bit-mapped images of business documents into voluminous collections of bytes. 

Others are doing the same with spatial information about land, water and sky. Meanwhile, the Internet is stimulating the urge to store and retrieve all sorts of information in digital form. 

Where are we going to put all this stuff? 

Do you want to switch from film to digital snapshots? Then you will be one of the instigators of new technology. A 3-by-5-inch color image, crisp at 72 dots to the inch, is going to gobble up 30 to several hundred kilobytes of your hard drive. Far sharper images will soon be possible from digital cameras. If you trade up, you could be using 200 megs for a wedding album. 

Futurist Michael Dertouzos, director of the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, counts data in LOCs. One LOC is all the data in the U.S. Library of Congress, which prints out to maybe 100 terabytes, if you count only words, not pictures, films and sound recordings. A terabyte is a trillion bytes. It is 1,000 of those 1-gigabyte hard drives that were common on last year's PCs. It is half a million pulp novels. 

Dertouzos says that the world has 10,000-plus LOCs, including all the movies, rock albums, corporate databases, government files and individual data files. That equals a quintillion bytes. Yes, there's a word for it. A quintillion bytes is an exabyte. The world has an exabyte to store. You could put this library on a collection 

of PC hard drives costing a mere $100 billion. 

Whatever the present volume is, it is poised to explode, as companies continue on their data-gathering frenzy and as families accumulate their home videos. Right now, Wal-Mart houses a mere 50 terabytes, but it thinks this mountain of data is too small to run a variety store chain. There are a lot of things about our business that we don't capture, says Randall Mott, chief information officer. We capture what customers buy, but not what they don't buy. That will change, he says. Wal-Mart is looking at plans to collect information from digital cameras showing the 

path individual customers take as they traverse the store. 

Computer airline reservation leader Sabre Group counts about 15 tera- bytes in its computer system. But it has barely begun storing digital images of destination hotels and resorts, says Chief Information Officer Terrell Jones. Next year NASA will create one terabyte of new data every day, as it gathers and converts raw data from its earth-watching satellites. And that's just one NASA project. 

How will the world make all this information accessible? The name of the game is to cram more data into the same space that last year's model consumed, quicken the retrieval and charge no more for the product. 

IBM delivered the first magnetic hard drive in 1956, on a flatbed truck, to Crown Zellerbach in San Francisco. That refrigerator-size box held a mere 5 megabytes. Today's home-variety PC includes a 2-gigabyte hard drive, 400 times the capacity. The old IBM monster used fifty 24- inch disks. Today's 2-gigabyte drive uses two 3.5-inch disks. 

Despite the dramatic gains, the drives use the same fundamental writing and reading technique of converting electronic plus or minus pulses into magnetically north or south bits. The modern drives just do everything a little better. Every time these guys hit the wall, they discover another recording or head technique, marvels Jones of the Sabre Group. And that's important to Sabre, which shoehorns central computer equipment into a Tulsa, Okla. data center under 42 inches of steel-reenforced concrete and 5 feet of earth. Jones just bought a new IBM hard drive subsystem that cut occupied floor space by a factor of 5, while increasing capacity by 50%, to 6 terabytes. 

Like their counterparts in chip design, the engineers experimenting with tomorrow's storage devices are running headlong into limits dictated by the laws of physics. The principle, called the superparamagnetic limit, states that there are only so many bits that can fit onto a disk before the bits become magnetically unstable. Possible meaning: Your $95 check to the shoe store becomes $95,000 on your bank statement. 

David Thompson, a scientist and IBM Fellow at IBM's Almaden Research Center in San Jose, Calif., predicts that bits, which represent data, will become unstable when they hit densities of between 40 and 80 gigabits per square inch. Today's densest disks run about 2.6 gigabits to the square inch. In the warp speed of Moore's Law, that gives you only five to ten years of breathing room. 

What might rescue us from the limits to magnetism? Here are some possibilities. 

n Make drives denser without shrinking the grain size of magnetic particles. For example, says Kenneth Lee, president of Quantum Corp.'s workstation and systems storage group, you could crowd the bits closer together without making them smaller by increasing the ability of the read/write head to distinguish neighboring bits. In engineering terms, you reduce the system's sensitivity to noise. It's like having a good FM radio that can pluck out a faint radio station from the static and competing stations that surround it. 

n Improve a head's ability to know when an error has occurred in the reading and writing process. Errors are tolerable if you can catch them and correct them on the fly. Between noise-related enhancements and error correction, Lee says magnetic drives could keep on their performance trajectory for another 25 years. 

n Make drives smarter. Whether through software or hardware, you would construct a storage device that makes frequently accessed data more accessible. For Sabre, that would mean that airfares to popular destinations could be retrieved more quickly. It's important to continually put more intelligence into a storage device, so it can predict what's liable to be needed, says Sabre's Jones. The disk drive becomes more of a cooperative processor with the main central processing unit. We get constrained by the time we go out to disk from the CPU. 

n Use optical technologies, like those used in compact disks. CDs right now are best suited to files (like music recordings) that don't need to be rewritten and that play out in a predictable order. They aren't well suited to files needing random retrieval and updatings, like bank account files, because it takes an optical drive too long to find a particular spot on the disk. 

TeraStor, a San Jose-based storage startup company, believes it has an answer to that. Its technology, called near field recording because it flies an optical reader close to a spinning disk, augurs 20-gigabyte PC drives by 1998, with access rates comparable to many magnetic drives, boasts TeraStor Chief Executive James McCoy. Currie Munce, who directs storage research at IBM's Almaden lab, is skeptical of these claims but thinks that the new DVD (digital video disk) favored by consumer electronics companies may rise to the occasion. 

n Use silicon. Advantage: much faster access times. Disadvantage (for now): much higher cost. Quantum today sells a half-gigabyte storage device that is built out of memory chips. It runs $2,000, while a magnetic hard drive holding four times as much data sells for $150. 

n Use exotic technologies. Physicist Lambertus Hesselink, chairman of holographic research firm Optitek in Mountain View, Calif., envisions a medium of the future consisting of a crystal or polymer measuring about 1 cubic centimeterthe size of a sugar cubecapable of holding a terabyte of data accessible at 125 megabytes per second. By comparison, access rates on today's hard drives top out at about 4 megabytes per second. 

It's just a pipe dream now, but the Department of Defense has put up $25 million for research in holographic storage. A superfast data sugar cube on board a jet fighter, stuffed full of information on ground features and enemy aircraft, could flash instant information that a pilot could use in deciding whether to strike or to flee. Is that a real bunker or is it a dummy? Was that crop of bushes there before, or could it be camouflage? 

Other possible applications: NASA satellites, which sometimes need to store huge volumes of bits when they don't have a live link to an Earth station; hospital files of X rays; a movies-on-demand library. 

Maybe something far more exotic still could come to the fore by the time magnetism wears out its welcome. Atom-by-atom storage, for example (see box). When the will is great enough, engineers have a way of overcoming or circumventing what seem to be insuperable barriers. 

RELATED ARTICLE: An atom at a time 

IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE a storage bit that's only as big as a single atom. Yet that's what's on the minds of physicists at IBM and other companies doing quantum research. 

Using a device called the scanning tunneling microscope, scientists can drag individual atoms across surfaces. Put one in a submicroscopic bin and the binary value might be 1. Leave the bin empty and the location reads 0. 

As you can imagine, this technology is a long way offat least two decades, anyway. As a data storage technique, it offers the potential for almost unimaginable data density. Since individual atoms don't get much bigger than 12 billionths of an inch, this means 100,000 gigabytes on a dime-size surface. 

IBM scientist Donald Eigler and visiting scientist Erhard Schweizer first moved individual atomsof xenonin 1989. But to make the process work, they had to lower the temperature to near absolute zero in a soundproof box. 

Atom moving has other possible applications. It could be used to make minute electrical circuits or to custom-build molecules. Drawback: Atom juggling, in a chipmaking machine or a computer memory, would be tortuously slow if each bit, or atom, had to be moved individually. While the mediumthe atomis small, the equipment used to manipulate it is big and bulky. But so was the first mainframe. 

RELATED ARTICLE: Holographics 

HOLOGRAPHIC DATA STORAGE is an optical technology that uses the cubic volume of a crystal or polymer, instead of the flat surface of a disk, to store data. At least a dozen companies and universitiesincluding IBM, Kodak, Lucent Technologies and Japan's NTT are working on the technology. 

Here's how 3-D storage might work: Electronic bits of 0s and 1s travel from the computer into a checkerboard called a spatial light modulator, where they become either dark or light squares. A laser passes through this collection of squares, picking up the dark and light checkerboard pattern, which is then focused into the sugar-cube-size medium. A second beam intersects the first beam inside the medium. This sets the digital information, which instead of being a series of magnetic north and south fields is a series of dark or light bandsa hologram. A cube would store many holograms. 

To read the pages, the computer reverses the process. The second beam passes through the cube, which triggers an information beam. Only this time, rather than passing through a spatial light modulator, it is focused by a lens back onto a detector array where it is converted back into electronic bits. Detector arrays are used today on digital cameras and camcorders to convert images to electronic information. 

Many challenges remain. What medium would work? NASA astrophysicist Michael Hollis notes, It's kind of like Thomas Edison looking for the right filament in a lightbulb. Don't throw out your magnetic hard drives just yet. 

illustration photograph table graph 


Document fb00000020011006dt77000uf


More Like This

 Article 95 *******************    



The geeks have inherited the earth. (science fiction; includes related articles on history of science fiction) 

Zina Moukheiber Ben Pappas 
4,830 words 
7 July 1997
Forbes 
348 
Vol. 159, No. 14, ISSN: 0015-6914 
English
COPYRIGHT 1997 Forbes Inc. 

WITH A FELT-TIP PEN, William Gibson crossed out infospace, then dataspace, on his yellow legal pad. They were words he'd made up, but they just weren't catchy enough. Then it clicked: cyberspace, a term with the feel of a buzzword and a hint of poetry. Gibson was writing a short story, Burning Chrome, and trying to label an electronic network. It was pure science fiction, and the year was 1981years before the Internet started to make its mark on the global consciousness. 

Science fiction is more than inelegant prose for pencil-necked teenagers. Businesspeople and investors looking to discover where technology is taking us would do well to pay attention to it. Through the decades the idea factory of SF, as it's called today, has sparked the imagination of generations of inventors who have tried to nudge the world a little closer to their collectively imagined future. 

It's not just literature, says Robert Stearns, chief technologist at Compaq Computer. It embeds in our mind certain key expectations about technologies and how we're going to use them. 

Today's science fiction goes even further, foreseeing fully realized futures whose outlines are visible within the presentas if the today is just the beta version of the tomorrow. 

Spinning scenarios for us to choose or avoid, writers like Gibson have their own impact. Writing in The Economist, Professor Paul Krugman of Stanford University recently dismissed a small shelf of economics- heavy books by such notables as historian Paul Kennedy, management consultant Stephane Garelli, military expert Edward Luttwak and businessman Sir James Goldsmith: If you want to read intelligent, well- written, grimly imaginative speculations about what might happen to our societies if present trends continueyou would do far better to read Neal Stephenson or other clever 'cyberpunk' writers like William Gibson and Bruce Sterling. 

The geeks, it seems, have inherited the Earth. 

Something made you, Cutie, pointed out Powell. You admit yourself that your memory seems to spring full-grown from an absolute blankness of a week ago. I'm giving you the explanation. Donovan and I put you together from the parts shipped us. 

Cutie gazed upon his long, supple fingers in an oddly human attitude of mystification. It strikes me that there should be a more satisfactory explanation than that. For you to make me seems quite improbable. 

The Earthman laughed quite suddenly, In Earth's name, why? 

Call it intuition. . . . 

Isaac Asimov: I, Robot (1950) 

None of this futuristic business is new. In 1865 Jules Verne wrote From the Earth to the Moon, describing a huge cannon blasting astronauts into space from a Florida launching pad. In tribute to his ingenuity, a full-scale model of his spacecraft (featuring red velvet seats and a whiskey-stocked cupboard) is on display at the National Air & Space Museum. H. G. Wells, a Verne near-contemporary, wrote about tank warfare in The Last Ironclads (1903) and aerial bombing in The War in the Air (1908). 

Scratch a techie and you're likely to find an abiding love for science fiction. Space engineers at the National Aeronautics & Space Administration readily admit they were drawn into rocketry thanks to the writings of Robert Heinlein, Arthur C. Clarke and Isaac Asimov. NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory routinely invited Clarke, Ray Bradbury and other writers to discuss interplanetary encounters, such as the landing of the Viking spaceship on Mars. 

Science literature is cut and dry, says Yoji Kondo, an astrophysicist at NASA and a writer. Science fiction makes it exciting and allows scientists to dream. 

Which is why we say businesspeople and investors ought to pay attention. From these dreams come the wonders of our age. Verne's Robur the Conqueror (1886) inspired Igor Sikorsky to build the first helicopter in 1939. His company, Sikorsky Helicopters, is now a division of United Technologies. Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Smalley got very big dreams reading Arthur C. Clarke's Fountains of Paradise (1978), which includes a description of space elevators. One of my dearest hopes in life is to build the cable for the space elevator, he says. Now, advances he has brought to nanotechnologysuper-tiny manufacturinghave taken lightweight, superstrong materials out of the realm of pure fantasy. 

Daniel Hillis pioneered parallel supercomputing and founded Thinking Machines in 1983; he credits Isaac Asimov's landmark I, Robot and Robert Heinlein's The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress (1966) for his early decision to study artificial intelligence. Hillis was fascinated by Heinlein's concept of an increasingly complex network of computers that achieves true intelligence. It led to my work in parallel processing, says Hillis, who is now doing R&D at Disney. Science fiction's influence on Hillis' decisions went back even further. He read Heinlein's Have Space SuitWill Travel (1958) when he was in junior high, and decided to follow the college choice of the hero of the tale by going to MIT. 

Vital tools that businesses and consumers rely on were inspired by sci-fi scribes. Arthur C. Clarke, who holds a bachelor's degree in physics and math from London's King's College, described the concept of communications satellites in a 1945 article, How the World was One. Hughes Space and Communications Co. built the first such satellite, Early Bird, and Comsat Corp. launched it in 1965. Comsat invited Clarke to the launch. He is the godfather of communications satellites, says Harold Rosen, who built Early Bird at Hughes. 

Robert Heinlein foresaw robotic hands controlled remotely by gloves and called them Waldos, a name that, improbably, stuck. Oh, yes, Heinlein got the literary jump on waterbeds, as well. And Dick Tracy's wrist radio is the Holy Grail of the wireless industry, says James Caile, a marketing vice president for Motorola. Caile hung a framed original 1946 comic strip showing cartoonist Chester Gould's most enticing invention in his office. We'll get there at some point, he vows. 

Cyberspace. A consensual hallucination experienced daily by billions of legitimate operators, in every nation, by children being taught mathematical concept . . . A graphic representation of data abstracted from the banks of every computer in the human system. Unthinkable complexity. Lines of light ranged in the nonspace of the mind, clusters and constellations of data. Like city lights, receding. 

William Gibson, 

Neuromancer (1984) 

Many of the people trying to design our high-tech world say Gibson's ideas have guided them toward Neuromancer's as-yet-unrealized marriage of the Internet and virtual reality. The book put us in a different direction, says Larry Smarr, director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana- Champaign. Instead of just designing supercomputing, we were going to design a cyberspacelike world. 

When a college kid named Marc Andreessen (Netscape's cofounder) helped to develop Mosaic, software that made it easy to browse the fledgling World Wide Web, Smarr recalls thinking that he had created a window into cyberspace similar to the Ono-Sendai deck, Gibson's imagined brand name for the machines that let users jack into the Net. 

Entrepreneurs have taken their inspiration from Gibson as well. Mark Pesce quit a job designing software to form a company he called Ono-Sendai in 1991. His initial efforts to create a three-dimensional environment on the Internet would eventually collapse. To use a phrase from Paul Saffo, a director of the Menlo Park, Calif.-based Institute for the Future, Pesce confused a clear line of sight with a short distance; the task was too vast for his small company. Pesce recalls the failure with frustration: Science fiction . . . inspires you, and it can make you nuts. People get impatient. 

Pesce eventually teamed up with fellow science fiction buff Anthony Parisi to create a language allowing developers to build their own 3-D applications. Now 35 computer companiesincluding Microsoft, Netscape, Oracle and Intelhave rallied behind the team's Virtual Reality Modeling Language. 

The place Gibson named doesn't really look much like what we call cyberspace today: He envisioned a largely corporate and educational network whose vast depositories of data were displayed visually. What we ended up with is more like a fully realized city, with virtual homes, businesses, libraries, nightclubseven a red light district. It is closer, in other words, to another science fiction vision, the metaverse Neal Stephenson envisioned in his 1992 Snow Crash. That particular moniker has not caught on, but many of Stephenson's ideas about what the on-line world can look like are driving a new generation of entrepreneurs to try to match it. 

In Stephenson's Snow Crash, hackers who have the technical know-how to write their own code sport sophisticated, graphically complex on-line avatars, or three-dimensional personae, who interact in the virtual world. Japanese businessmen, on the other hand, order up minutely detailed, perfect images of themselves in the same dark suits they wear to the office. Newbies coming in through cheap public terminals must make do with grainy, jerky black-and-white models. The techno-elite mingle in an on-line bar called Black Sun. 

It's already on its way. Software engineer Franz Buchenberger has raised $8 million in venture money to form Black Sun Interactive, based in San Francisco and Munich, Germany. The company has revenues of almost $1 million, and sells tools to build 3-D environments and avatars. Buchenberger has tried to follow Stephenson's game plan at every turn, from avatars coming together in on-line gatherings to cybercards for storing and exchanging personal information. For the Super Bowl in January, Black Sun built an avatar community for SportsLine USA's Web site. Fans chatted in a virtual locker room or in the SuperDome, which was a virtual representation of the New Orleans stadium. 

Buchenberger E-mailed Stephenson to get his blessing for use of the Black Sun name and even asked if the author would be interested in promoting the company. Stephenson, who has signed a lucrative Snow Crash film deal, demurred. I think people have figured out that I'm not going to do that, says the goateed 37-year-old. 

Worlds Inc., based in San Francisco, is also developing on-line virtual chat environments for customers such as AT&T and Absolute vodka. Founder David Gobel said he had been working on the ideas before Snow Crash came along, and when he did read the book, initially he says he was pissed off, because Snow Crash gave my business plan away. 

This is America. People do whatever the f*** they feel like doing, you got a problem with that? Because they have a right to. And because they have guns and no one can f***ing stop them. As a result, this country has one of the worst economies in the world. When it gets down to ittalking trade balances hereonce we've brain-drained all our technology into other countries, once things have evened out, they're making cars in Bolivia and microwave ovens in Tadzhikistan and selling them hereonce our edge in natural resources has been made irrelevant by giant Hong Kong ships and dirigibles that can ship North Dakota all the way to New Zealand for a nickelonce the Invisible Hand has taken all those historical inequities and smeared them out into a broad global layer of what a Pakistani brickmaker would consider to be prosperity y'know what? There's only four things we do better than anyone else. 

music 

movies 

microcode (software) 

high-speed pizza delivery. 

Neal Stephenson, Snow Crash (1992) 

Of course, science fiction isn't limited to what are now derisively called hardware stories, and not every author tries to predict which way we'll go. Sometimes, in fact, they're trying to tell us where not to go. Nearly 50 years ago George Orwell foresaw interactive television in Nineteen Eighty-four, but as a tool for eavesdropping and oppression. And would any of us be able to bear the hellish futures of Harlan Ellison, author of harrowing short stories such as I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream? These are tales that warn us away from futures that would give our technological servants too much control over our livesa theme that it doesn't take a Unabomber to appreciate. 

Orwell's warning still resonates with Frank Moss, chief executive of Tivoli Systems. Moss had lapped up books by Verne, Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke on the way to getting his doctorate in aeronautics and astronautics at MIT. In Orwell he saw a world in which global computer networks were controlling people, Moss says. So I decided to focus on how we can make computer networking more valuable to people, rather than take away their freedom. In 1984 he put computing power into the hands of individual users with Apollo, the first workstation. 

The strength of a vivid idea can inspire scientists even when it's part of a darker vision. Arthur C. Clarke and Stanley Kubrick's film 2001: A Space Odyssey might have portrayed a computer gone mad, but the HAL 9000's prowess with language turned out to be deeply inspiring to speech recognition researchers. Knowing that such a thing has been imagined was good enough that at some point in time we can deliver the technology, says David Nahamoo, manager of Human Language Technologies at IBM's Research Division. 

All fiction is metaphor. Science fiction is metaphor. What sets it apart from older forms of fiction seems to be its use of new metaphors . . . . Space travel is one of these metaphors; so is an alternative society, an alternative biology; the future is another. The future, in fiction, is a metaphor. 

A metaphor for what? 

If I could have said it nonmetaphorically, I would not have written all these words, this novel. 

Ursula K. Le Guin, introduction to The Left Hand of Darkness (1969) 

The authors don't see themselves as prognosticators or Alvin Toffler- style futurists. Austin, Tex.-based science fiction writer Bruce Sterling calls prediction an occupational hazard of the trade, but insists We're not retailing blueprints . . . I'm developing scenarios. Sometimes writers get lucky and look like seers. When Thomas Edison was popularizing electricity, explains Stephenson, he anticipated things like the lightbulb, the electric washing machinebut he didn't anticipate the electric guitar. Stephenson says that he and such writers as Sterling and Gibson have been trying to envision the electric guitars and the rock music. 

For every correct prediction a dozen were wrong, or correct only if the facts are stretched a little, notes Peter Nicholls in The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction. Where are all those death rays and humanoid robots, anyway? It is rather a dubious vindication to point out that laser beams can now be used as weaponry, Nicholls wrote. Who knew that lasers would, instead, be nearly ubiquitous, reading the music off our CDs and relaying our telephone chatter over fiber-optic strands? 

So what is the science fiction writer's role? We are wise fools who can leap, caper, utter prophecies and scratch ourselves in public, says Sterling, who helped form science fiction's gritty cyberpunk genre. We have influence without responsibility. Very few feel obliged to take us seriously, yet our ideas permeate the culture, bubbling along invisibly, like background radiation. Sterling gets red-carpet treatment as a social commentator: He was the featured speaker at a recent event held by the chairman of French telecommunications company Alcatel. 

The writers earn their status by yoking their imaginations to disciplined homework. Stephenson's latest book, The Diamond Age, deals with the coming wonders of nanotechnology. He enlisted the advice of nano-technology expert and physicist K. Eric Drexler. Stephenson returned the favor in his book with a passage describing a fresco of scientific giants that includes Drexler. Gibson, too, submits his writings to scientist friends who vet the manuscripts for any erroneous hypotheses. In his Neuromancer screenplay, Gibson wrote about arbitrage engines, software which helps traders spot price discrepancies on world markets. A knowledgeable friend told him to take it out. He said there won't be arbitrage engines in 10 to 20 years, because arbitrage will disappear. It can't exist in a completely wired world of instantaneous communications, recalls Gibson. 

Do they get rich off their prophecies? Even when their predictions end up true, science fiction authors rarely have much to show for their perspicacity beyond the bragging rights. A patent is a license to be sued, says Clarke. Besides, if I had patented communications satellites in 1945, it [the patent] would have expired in 1965. That's how long it took Hughes to build Early Bird and for Comsat Corp. to launch it. Clarke received a few token shares of Comsat. 

Gibson jokes that real foresight would have led him to establish some kind of ownership rights over the word cyberspace. But Stephenson suggests that such attempts to restrict the spread of ideas could have a chilling effect: I don't think 'cyberspace' [the word] would be as widespread right now if Bill Gibson had trademarked it and got around to stopping the people who used it. 

Corporations have proved more eager to protect their intellectual property. Viacom has been particularly aggressive. The company owns rights to Star Trek, the creation of the late television writer Gene Roddenberry. Predicting that scientists might be inspired by Star Trek creations, he forbade Paramount to charge them licensing fees. Viacom, which owns Paramount, has disregarded Roddenberry's wishes. 

That may be why no one at Motorola admits for attribution that its newest folding StarTac cellular phone looks suspiciously like the flip- open communicators from the original Star Trek. Viacom has threatened the communications giant with legal action if it does. In 1995 an Ontario-based scientific instrument company named Vital Technologies Corp. brought out a handheld computerized device that measures barometric pressure and other environmental conditions. It called it a Tricorder, after a similar device on Star Trek. Viacom insisted on a royalty in exchange for use of the name. The company paid. 

Wonder if the computer's finished its run. It was due about now. 

Chuck didn't reply, so George swung around in his saddle. He could just see Chuck's face, a white oval turned toward the sky. 

Look, whispered Chuck, and George lifted his eyes to heaven. (There is always a last time for everything.) 

Overhead, without any fuss, the stars were going out. 

Arthur C. Clarke, The Nine Billion Names of God (1953) 

Ultimately, science fiction's gift to the world isn't in the inventions that have piled up over the decades. It is in the people who read the works and were inspired to create in their own medium, whether in ones and zeroes or in nuts and bolts. For those of us who are never likely to invent a product that will change the world, the literature of possibility helps to replenish a crucial and all-too-scarce commodity: wonder. 

Wonder. That's not a bad thing for investors and businesspeople to indulge in occasionally. 

RELATED ARTICLE: You don't know until you try 

IT'S 1907. A writer sits by his gas lamp on deadline to pen fiction for Pearson's magazine. To fight writer's block he conjures up a tale of a machine that would take rough plot input and grind out a publishable work. Thus did Robert Wilson's A Countermine contrive to invent the Automatic Literary Constructor, its database loaded with contributions from the likes of Rudyard Kipling and Mark Twain. 

Fast forward to 1994. Screenplay Systems introduces Dramatica, a software line that acts as a story development tool using plot examples from F. Scott Fitzgerald and John Grisham. Wilson didn't invent Dramatica, but like most things it had to be imagined before it could be invented. 

One of the most exceptional predictive stories is Hugo Gernsback's Ralph 124C 41+: A Romance of the Year 2660. The story first appeared in serial form in Modern Electrics in 1911. In each installment Gernsback's scientist, Ralph, whose numerical last name reads one to foresee for one, encounters a new technology. 

The passage on radar, which preceded its invention by almost 30 years, includes a diagram with radio-wave patterns. 

Newspaper articles are viewed on microfiche: A piece of material as large as a postage stamp, as transparent and flexible as celluloid . . . which, when enlarged by a powerful lens, became plainly visible. 

Gernsback foresaw synthetic fibers: raw materials . . . cooked and then treated by chemicals until the fibers issued in fine microscopic streams from nozzles under hydraulic pressure . . . the new kind of cloth, which was much lighter than wool or cotton [and was] cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter. 

Gernsback himself took out 40-odd patents, but is today remembered for his imagination and contributions to science fiction, not science. In 1926 he published Amazing Stories, the first science-fiction-only magazine. 

Not every SF person was a Gernsback. SF historian Everett Bleiler recalls one writer who mused about sticking dozens of cats in a big glass insulator with a device for stroking them to build up static electricity. Other losers include steam razors, dream recorders, odor cameras, electric bicycles and a surgical guillotine that planted acorns for growing wooden limbs after an amputation. 

In 1913 Gernsback's Modern Electrics misfired with a story about a scientist who dreams of the riches to be made through chemically converting crude oil hydrocarbons into synthetic milk. 

But you don't know until you try. 

RELATED ARTICLE: Sci-fi: a true tale 

STORIES OF SCIENCE and wonder existed for more than a century before the term "science fiction." Notes Brian Stableford, SF historian: "[Science fiction] is primarily concerned with transcending imaginative boundaries, with breaking free of the gravitational force which holds consciousness to a traditional core of belief and expectancy." 

1920s Film: Metropolis (1926) Text: Amazing Stories (1926) In 1926 science fiction gets off the ground: At the newsstand, inventor and author Hugo Gernsback (see box, p. 362) publishes Amazing Stories, the first science-fiction-only magazine; in the cinema, Fritz Lang's Metropolis presents visions of a future city with spiraling towers, massive machines and robots. 

1930s Film: Flash Gordon (1936, 1938), Buck Rogers (1939) Text: Brave New World (Aldous Huxley, 1932) The Great Depression leaves a quarter of America's work force unemployed, and escapist science fiction adventures speed readers to a better world in the future. Film versions of two of the most famous space adventurers, Flash Gordon and Buck Rogers, both star Larry (Buster) Crabbe. H.G. Wells' The Invisible Man becomes a movie hit. Orson Welles' radio-news-style appropriation of Wells' War of the Worlds sends more than a million listeners into a panic. 

1940s Film/TV: Superman (serial, 1948), Captain Video (TV, 1949) Text: Earth Abides (George Stewart, 1949), Nineteen Eighty-Four (George Orwell, 1949) Science fiction gains momentum, despite World War II. More magazines appear, and characters such as Superman become universal heroes through television and radio. The bomb and the atomic age usher in a darker side of science fiction, as evidenced by the post-apocalyptic Earth Abides and the totalitarian Nineteen Eighty-Four. 

1950s Film/TV: The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951), Godzilla (1954), Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956), Forbidden Planet (1956), The Twilight Zone (TV, 1959) Text: The Martian Chronicles, Fahrenheit 451 (Ray Bradbury, 1950, 1951), Childhood's End (Arthur C. Clarke, 1953), I, Robot (Isaac Asimov, 1950) Science fiction heroes shift from supermen to common men struggling against superforces-technology, nature and extraterrestrials. Invasion of the Body Snatchers' "pod people" raises issues of Eisenhower-era conformity and McCarthy-era paranoia. Science fiction masters publish some of their most famous works; the first college science fiction course is taught at City College of New York in 1953. 

1960s Film/TV: Barbarella (1967), 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), Star Trek (TV, 1966) Text: Stranger in a Strange Land (Robert Heinlein, 1961), Dune (Frank Herbert, 1965) Science fiction rockets into the stratosphere of popular culture as man reaches the moon. Robert Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land and Frank Herbert's Dune top the bestseller list. Heinlein's text becomes a virtual road map for Ken Kesey and his Merry Pranksters. At the movies science fiction is now socially internalized enough to allow for the silly-Barbarella-and the stellar-2001: A Space Odyssey. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., recognizing the social importance of Star Trek, asks Nichelle Nichols not to leave her post as the Enterprise's Lieutenant Uhura. 

1970s Film/TV: Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977), Star Wars (1977), Alien (1979) Text: The Dispossessed (Ursula K. Le Guin, 1974) In 1975 the U.S. surrenders Saigon; two years later it laps up George Lucas' new space opera, which pushes all the right buttons and soothes the country's damaged psyche. Star Wars and its cousin, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, also establish science fiction as a box office money machine. Women increase their presence in the universe as Ursula K. Le Guin emerges as amajor science fiction writer and Sigourney Weaver single-handedly battles an alien. 

1980s Film/TV: Tron (1982), Blade Runner (1982), Short Circuit (1986), Max Headroom (TV, 1985) Text: Neuromancer (William Gibson, 1984), Ender's Game (Orson Scott Card, 1985) In the 1980s computers become household appliances and the public's perception of technology shifts from 2001's HAL to Max Headroom and Short Circuit 's faithful Number Five. The cyberpunk movement captures the country's imagination, and William Gibson's Neuromancer and Tron give the world a glimpse of the new frontier to explore: cyberspace. 

1990s Film/TV: Independence Day (1996), X-Files (TV, 1993) Text: The Martian trilogy (Kim Stanley Robinson, 1992-94), Snow Crash (Neal Stephenson, 1992) The 1990s push forward with a blend of old and new. With the Cold War over, aliens return as harbingers of fear and paranoia-whether they blow up the White House, as in Independence Day, or lurk in the X-Files of the FBI. In the real world, what was once fiction now seems like science, as meteorites from Mars suggest fossilized life, supercomputers rival humans in chess and the possibilities of cloning become reality. 

RELATED ARITCLE: You don't know until you try 

IT'S 1907. A writer sits by his gas lamp on deadline to pen fiction for Pearson's magazine. To fight writer's block he conjures up a tale of a machine that would take rough plot input and grind out a publishable work. Thus did Robert Wilson's A Countermine contrive to invent the Automatic Literary Constructor, its database loaded with contributions from the likes of Rudyard Kipling and Mark Twain. 

Fast forward to 1994. Screenplay Systems introduces Dramatica, a software line that acts as a story development tool using plot examples from F. Scott Fitzgerald and John Grisham. Wilson didn't invent Dramatica, but like most things it had to be imagined before it could be invented. 

One of the most exceptional predictive stories is Hugo Gernsback's Ralph 124C 41+: A Romance of the Year 2660. The story first appeared in serial form in Modern Electrics in 1911. In each installment Gernsback's scientist, Ralph, whose numerical last name reads one to foresee for one, encounters a new technology. 

The passage on radar, which preceded its invention by almost 30 years, includes a diagram with radio-wave patterns. 

Newspaper articles are viewed on microfiche: A piece of material as large as a postage stamp, as transparent and flexible as celluloid . . . which, when enlarged by a powerful lens, became plainly visible. 

Gernsback foresaw synthetic fibers: raw materials . . . cooked and then treated by chemicals until the fibers issued in fine microscopic streams from nozzles under hydraulic pressure . . . the new kind of cloth, which was much lighter than wool or cotton [and was] cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter. 

Gernsback himself took out 40-odd patents, but is today remembered for his imagination and contributions to science fiction, not science. In 1926 he published Amazing Stories, the first science-fiction-only magazine. 

Not every SF person was a Gernsback. SF historian Everett Bleiler recalls one writer who mused about sticking dozens of cats in a big glass insulator with a device for stroking them to build up static electricity. Other losers include steam razors, dream recorders, odor cameras, electric bicycles and a surgical guillotine that planted acorns for growing wooden limbs after an amputation. 

In 1913 Gernsback's Modern Electrics misfired with a story about a scientist who dreams of the riches to be made through chemically converting crude oil hydrocarbons into synthetic milk. 

But you don't know until you try. 

photograph illustration 


Document fb00000020011006dt77000uu


More Like This

 Article 96 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING QUANTUM DOT

EDITED BY NEIL GROSS Otis Port 
249 words 
1 September 1997
Business Week 
72 
Number 3542 
English
(Copyright 1997 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

SOMETIME AROUND 2020, THE EVER-SHRINKING TRANSISTOR will be as tiny as it can get. But researchers at the University of Notre Dame report in the Aug. 15 issue of Science that future technology may yield chips with 150,000 times as many transistor-like switches as today's brainiest silicon slivers. 

The trick is harnessing the woolly wonders of quantum mechanics--a world in which electrons can ``tunnel'' through space to relay signals without moving or generating heat. The Notre Dame team demonstrated that tiny quantum dots can process data without relying on wires, which occupy far more space on a chip than transistors do. 

Instead of circuit patterns you can see, the prototype has rows of microscopic boxes that resemble the ``deuce'' faces on dice. The two dots in opposite corners are quantum dots, and they confine a roaming electron to one of the unoccupied corners. Reverse an electric charge at the chip's edge, and the electron in the first box flips to the opposite corner, setting off a chain reaction down the quantum ``wire'' that pushes the electrons in each successive box to the far-side corner. This can relay a signal or store data without any actual flow of electrons. Today, the dots are large and unwieldy. But as they shrink, team leader Gregory L. Snider, an assistant professor of electrical engineering, envisions chips with trillions of tiny quantum boxes. 

Document bw00000020011005dt91002n0


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 97 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

EDITED BY NEIL GROSS 
169 words 
1 September 1997
Business Week 
72 
Number 3542 
English
(Copyright 1997 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

-- Finally, an application may be in sight for carbon 60, or ``buckyballs.'' Researchers at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis say that when injected in mice, water-soluble C60 molecules can ameliorate the worst effects of neurodegenerative ailments such as Lou Gehrig's disease. Their unique spherical structure--evoking Buckminster Fuller's geodesic domes--lets the modified buckyballs absorb large quantities of harmful free radicals in the blood. To get the tough spheres to dissolve in water, researchers attached side chains of oxygen and hydrogen molecules. -- Scientists at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory and at a Honeywell Inc. electronics research lab are devising a new breed of computer memory that won't fail when the power shuts off. Instead of storing information as an electric charge on a chip, the system will memorize bits of data according to how the fields in tiny magnetic cells are aligned. 

Initially, the devices will be aimed at military and space applications. 

Document bw00000020011005dt91002n1


More Like This

 Article 98 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

THIS GOLD STANDARD CAN PINPOINT DISEASES 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT By Catherine Arnst 
165 words 
15 September 1997
Business Week 
94 
Number 3544 
English
(Copyright 1997 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

IT USES GOLD, YET A NEW APPROACH to testing for hereditary and pathogenic diseases will be incredibly cheap, says Northwestern University chemistry Professor Chad A. Mirkin. Partly that's because the tests need only microscopic ``nanoparticles'' of gold. 

By combining the gold with selected strands of cloned DNA, Mirkin's team can create litmus-like tests that quickly detect a specific microbe or DNA target in saliva or other bodily fluids. And the color change to blue is so obvious that interpreting the results doesn't require an expert. Since the strips cost just pennies each, ``thousands of samples can be run very inexpensively,'' says Mirkin. 

Currently, diagnostic tests for hereditary diseases use radioactive materials that need special handling and spoil rapidly when sitting on the shelf. The gold-based tests eliminate those problems. Northwestern is evaluating offers from venture-capital groups and pharmaceutical companies to commercialize the test. 

Document bw00000020011005dt9f002wi


More Like This

 Article 99 *******************    



TEXAS JOURNAL 
Economic Focus 

Rice University Scientists Build Future on Buckyballs

By Anne Reifenberg 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
1,007 words 
17 September 1997
The Wall Street Journal 
Texas Journal 
T1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1997, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

HOUSTON -- Rick Smalley has a dream -- a tiny dream. 

Or, in the vernacular of the scientific world the Nobel Prize-winner inhabits, a nanoscale dream. And if it comes true, Rice University's Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology will be a launching pad for the real-life application of inventions and discoveries that will shrink to smaller-than-infinitesimal size the building blocks for most every manufactured thing around us. 

Imagine the body of an automobile weighing less than the human driving it but strong enough to brush off a high-speed collision with a tank. Or surgical instruments so puny you won't know they're in your body as they perform double-bypass surgery on your heart. 

That's the dream, anyway. The discipline of nanoscale science and technology is decades, if not generations, away from making those kinds of leaps. But at Rice, the attitude is that if the leaps are to be made, the multidisciplinary, $32.3 million center should be the springboard. Which is why Dr. Smalley and well-heeled Rice are working so hard to drain brains from the most exalted institutions of higher education in the country. 

"We are trying to suck up great faculty," says Dr. Smalley, the center's director. "But we're not trying to create a research institute just for show. ... There is something extra powerful in this country about private institutions like Rice, Chicago, Stanford and Columbia that can afford to paint their own picture of what they want to be." 

Rice's paintbrush is pointed. Since 1994 -- two years before Dr. Smalley and fellow Rice chemist Robert Curl won, with a professor in England, the Nobel in chemistry -- Rice has snared professors from Harvard University, AT&T Bell Labs, Stanford University, the University of Chicago, Pennsylvania State University and the University of California at Berkeley. Six slots affiliated with the nanoscience center remain to be filled. 

The fact that Rice is among the best-endowed and most financially stable private universities in the nation doesn't hurt the recruitment effort. The reputations of Drs. Smalley and Curl certainly smooth the selling process, too. Slick, full-color brochures have been published and distributed. 

And Dr. Smalley, who admits that Houston's weather and out-of-the-way locale present marketing challenges, has been known to take extraordinary measures: When Harvard made a counter-offer to Andrew Barron, a professor of chemistry and materials science, Dr. Smalley sent him a dozen red roses with a card declaring: "Wish you were here." 

"It worked," says Dr. Barron, who moved to Rice in 1995. 

It wasn't just the roses. He and others get a thrill out of the idea of being headquartered in a fledgling facility devoted not only to next-generation science, but to the aggressive mixing of ideas and personalities from a cross-section of disciplines: chemistry, biology, engineering, materials science, mathematics, computer science and even plain old business. 

"If you do research in a certain area, you shouldn't stop where your discipline has its traditional boundaries, but keep going," Dr. Barron says. "Our primary function [at the center] is to train scientists and engineers who will go into the big, bad world of industry and commerce and create things that make our lives better." 

That's the dream, again. It made a dent in ordinary Texans' consciousness when the Nobel was awarded to Dr. Smalley and his colleagues for their discovery of a soccer-ball-shaped molecule dubbed buckminsterfullerene for its resemblance to the famous geodesic domes of visionary architect R. Buckminster Fuller. These so-called buckyballs, composed of 60 carbon atoms, are the foundation of a whole class of nanoscale -- meaning really, really, really tiny -- carbon structures that could change the way we live. 

You might recall from chemistry class that all living things are composed of minuscule structures similarly derived from carbon. That's largely why the discovery of the much tinier buckminsterfullerenes opened the door onto a whole new chemistry and material science. 

From buckyballs might be built nanotubes, cylindrical carbon fibers 1/10,000th the size of a human hair but 100 times stronger than steel, and expert conductors of electricity. The fashioning of nanotubes that don't fall apart might lead to revolutions in medicine, transportation, electronics and power generation. From that might come buildings impervious to earthquakes, batteries that never die, chemotherapy treatments that don't poison healthy cells. 

The possibilities are not, however, endless. Some nanoscale buffs are fond of what Dr. Smalley calls the "garbage-to- cheeseburger transformer theory," which holds that, a la "Star Trek: The Next Generation," we one day will be able to load debris into something akin to a microwave, wait a few seconds and unload dinner. The man with the Nobel says this isn't conceivable. 

What is, he asserts, is "a computer more powerful than anything imagined today that will fit in the palm of your hand." If he's right, and the center at Rice meets its touted potential, Houston could then evolve into a center for nanoscale industry. 

"We could spawn a new high-tech industry," Dr. Smalley says. "Those pioneering new fields [at the center] could choose to start their entrepreneurial ventures here. It is one of the most fertile areas in the country for that kind of economic development." 

There's a long road ahead. "This university is going through a sort of late adolescence, just developing into a world-class research university," Dr. Smalley says. Rice simply isn't known far and wide for its focus on scientific research. The center aims to change that, in a small way. 

"Nature has in life been playing the game on this ultimate, nano level for billions of years," Dr. Smalley says. "We're gradually getting there in our clumsy way, and eventually we'll be able to do things that nature can't." 

Document j000000020011007dt9h00lvl


More Like This

 Article 102 *******************    



Technology Brief -- VEECO INSTRUMENTS INC.: Pact Is Reached to Aquire Maker of Precision Devices 

167 words 
10 February 1998
The Wall Street Journal 
B4 
English
(Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

Veeco Instruments Inc., a maker of data-storage equipment, said it agreed to acquire Digital Instruments Inc., Santa Barbara, Calif., a closely held maker of high-precision measurement devices, for about $150 million in stock. The deal, subject to approval by Veeco's board and its shareholders, calls for Veeco to issue 5.5 million shares to Digital's stockholders. Veeco closed at $27.2813, down $2.2188, or 7.5%, on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The acquisition was announced after the market closed. Digital, with 118 employees, had unaudited 1997 revenue of about $51 million. Veeco, Plainview, N.Y., said it expects the deal to add to earnings immediately. Veeco Chief Executive Edward H. Braun said Digital's measurement products would complement Veeco's own atomic-force microscope products. He estimated the current market for atomic-force microscopy is about $150 million and that it will triple in the next five years. 

Document j000000020010917du2a0025u


More Like This

 Article 103 *******************    



Technology Brief -- VEECO INSTRUMENTS INC.: Pact Is Reached to Aquire Maker of Precision Devices 

143 words 
11 February 1998
The Wall Street Journal 
No Page Citation 
English
(Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

Veeco Instruments Inc., a maker of data-storage equipment, said it agreed to acquire Digital Instruments Inc., Santa Barbara, Calif., a closely held maker of high-precision measurement devices, for about $150 million in stock. The deal, subject to approval by Veeco's board and its shareholders, calls for Veeco to issue 5.5 million shares to Digital's stockholders. Digital, with 118 employees, had unaudited 1997 revenue of about $51 million. Veeco, Plainview, N.Y., said it expects the deal to add to earnings immediately. Veeco Chief Executive Edward H. Braun said Digital's measurement products would complement Veeco's own atomic-force microscope products. He estimated the current market for atomic-force microscopy is about $150 million and that it will triple in the next five years. 

Document j000000020010917du2b002ge


More Like This

 Article 104 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

THESE MOLECULES ARE REAL SELF-STARTERS 

EDITED BY CATHERINE ARNST 
265 words 
6 April 1998
Business Week 
128 
Number 3572 
English
(c) 1998 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

FOR ENGINEERS, IT'S CLOSE TO playing God. They are devising so-called self-assembly techniques aimed at getting molecules to arrange themselves into larger functioning systems, much as eggs and sperm self-assemble into human beings. Until now, only nature has been able to get more than a few molecules to join together, into very small nanostructures. But on Mar. 20, two University of Rochester researchers said they had developed the largest synthetic structures ever made by self-assembly. 

Though each structure contains millions of molecules, the largest is only 50 microns long, less than the width of a human hair. Still, that's 1,000 times larger than the previous record for synthetic self-assembled structures, the researchers report in the journal Science. ``In the world of self-assembly, these structures are giant,'' says X. Linda Chen, one of the researchers and a graduate engineering student at Rochester. Chen and engineering professor Samson A. Jenekhe started with a large polymer macromolecule long thought too unstable for self-assembly. They tamed the polymer by inserting hydrogen bonds into the structures, the same stabilizers found in DNA and other natural self-assembled proteins. 

The molecules form a variety of shapes, including spheres, cylinders, rings, and disks--all of which have a fluorescent glow. The researchers say the structures could be utilized as drug-delivery vehicles, adhesives, lasers, sensors, and for other industrial applications. 

Photograph: Photograph: `GIANT' STRUCTURES: A photo of self-assembled, hollow spheres PHOTOGRAPH BY X. LINDA CHEN/UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER 


Document bw00000020010915du46001s9


More Like This

 Article 105 *******************    



Science: Whatever Happened to the Buckyball? 

By Susan Warren 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
1,218 words 
4 May 1998
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 1998, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

From the moment the buckyball bounced onto the scene in 1985, it dazzled scientists with its perfect symmetry, sensational curves and alluring hollow core. Looking just like a soccer ball, the microscopic bundle of 60 atoms represented a startling new form of carbon -- the building block of life. Physicists, chemists and materials scientists foresaw a vast universe of lucrative commercial uses, from finely tuned pharmaceuticals to broad-based industrial applications. 

But today the buckyball is landing with a thud. While it won the hearts of scientists and a Nobel prize in chemistry for the three scientists at Rice University who discovered it, nobody has found a workable commercial use. Labs at Lucent Technologies Inc. and DuPont Co. have turned to other things, and companies that set up shop to churn out what they hoped would be tons of buckyballs instead sell less than a pound a month -- all for research. 

"Bucky doesn't have a job yet," co-discoverer Richard Smalley says. And he adds paternally, "We do wring our hands a little bit worrying it may never happen." 

For many scientists -- and industry in general -- that is a letdown. Buckyballs looked like a milestone in industry because they represented the first molecule built out of carbon. Formally dubbed fullerenes (after Buckminster Fuller, architect of the geodesic domes that buckyballs resemble) they promised scientists a chance to manipulate carbon materials as never before. 

That is because carbons like diamonds and graphite, which are latticeworks of single atoms, can't be dissolved into liquids. Buckyballs can. Since buckyballs are a stable molecule, scientists can build them up Lego-style by tacking on additional atoms or molecules. 

"We thought there was going to be a huge market," says Robert Wong, who launched SES Resarch in Houston in 1992 to make and sell buckyballs. His company, which started out with about 300 buckyball customers, now has about 100, and he and his staff of five are switching their focus to engineering consulting, though they still make buckyballs. 

Tracing the rise and fall of buckyballs offers a view of the hurdles a discovery must leap to make it to the marketplace. First of all, to be a commercial success, a new material must do something better or more cheaply than anything else. 

But that leads to the old chicken-and-egg problem. Without a major industrial use, there is no incentive to spend lots of money figuring out how to make buckyballs cost less. But unless they cost less, they can't seem to find a commercial use. 

Consider the experience of Bell Labs, now a unit of Lucent. It has been trying for years to find "superconducting" materials that can conduct electricity without energy loss at near room temperatures. (While some materials become superconducting when they are supercooled, that is an expensive and complicated process.) 

In 1991, Robert Haddon, then a chemist at the lab, theorized that by inserting metal atoms between buckyballs -- imagine putting a tennis ball in the space created by the conjunction of four basketballs -- the molecules could become a promising superconductive material. 

Early experiments showed he was right. Buckyballs alone don't conduct electricity. But when scientists heated metal atoms and buckyballs together, they found the spare atoms fell naturally into the spaces between balls. The result: an intriguing new metal that could conduct electricity. 

During the next year, the Bell scientists experimented with the compound to test its superconducting boundaries. Very quickly, they found that the buckyball material became superconductive at higher temperatures than they expected. Unfortunately, other materials, such as copper oxide, proved to be better. 

Despite three more years of work, Bell Labs never got buckyballs to perform better than other current superconducting materials. "In this case, we got out some great science, and nothing useful," says Don Murphy, head of applied materials reasearch at the lab. 

At other companies, some scientists envisioned the buckyball as a microscopic ball-bearing and experimented with its lubricating ability. They figured that because buckyballs are microscopic balls, a bunch of them together would act like ball bearings. They played with the idea of putting them into fine machinery, like watches, or as a motor oil additive. But existing lubricants -- graphite powder, for instance -- proved to do the job as well and more cheaply. 

At DuPont, Gerry Lavin, a senior scientist in the company's research labs, worked on a process that would exploit buckyballs' antioxidant qualities -- their ability to vacuum up "free radicals," which are left over from various chemical processes. Over time, the free radicals can form a residue that gunks up equipment and impairs its function. 

The scientists knew the 60 carbon atoms making up the buckyball produce a kind of electron cloud around the ball. Free radicals, meanwhile, have a spare electron just looking to connect with another electron. So "when a free radical sees a buckyball, it's like a stickyball. It grabs it and can't let go," Mr. Lavin says. 

That quality got DuPont scientists thinking that buckyballs could be added to industrial chemical processes that normally produce lots of free radicals. Unfortunately, because buckyballs are still expensive to produce, they didn't bring any cost savings. 

Though prices have dropped over the years, buckyballs, which form a gritty, brownish yellow powder when gathered by the billions, still cost from $25 to $200 a gram, depending on their purity. That's something like $11,000 or more a pound. For any commercially viable product, buckyballs need to cost well under $100 a pound. And for industrial uses such as those DuPont envisioned, the price would need to be more like $10, Mr. Lavin says. 

Some think the best potential for buckyballs remains in medicine. Insert the right atom or tack on the right molecule, the theory goes, and they can become a carrier pigeon for a new drug. But so far, researchers haven't gotten far enough to know how well that works. 

It may be too early to drop the buckyball altogether. Decades can pass before a commercial use is found for some new materials. "Nuclear magnetic resonance was strictly a scientific curiosity for decades, and now it's one of the biggest things in medicine," says Donald Huffman, physics professor at the University of Arizona, Tucson, who in 1990 found a way to actually make microscopic buckyballs so that scientists could begin studying them. 

But for now, buckyballs are something of a poster child for the scientific world. Disney sells buckyball models at its Epcot Center in Orlando, Fla., and teachers take soccer balls to class to teach children about molecules, encouraging them to imagine each vertex as a carbon atom. 

"It was a great class," says Mildred Dresselhaus, a physics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who worked with third graders recently. "Now they know a lot more about the soccer ball they kick around." 


---
                 A Pricey Breakthrough
  Buckyballs now cost $11,000 and up per pound. Below are the prices
needed to make a variety of commercial applications economically
feasible.
APPLICATION          PRICE/LB
Pharmaceuticals       $2,500
Catalysts                682
Optical materials        100
Electronics coating       15
APPLICATION          PRICE/LB
Lubricant additives      $15
Battery chemicals          5
Dyes                       3
Pigments                   1


Source: BuckyUSA, Houston 

Document j000000020010917du5400cr2


More Like This

 Article 106 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

THIS MICROSCOPE CAN POKE AT ATOMS 

EDITED BY NEIL GROSS 
272 words 
13 July 1998
Business Week 
139 
Number 3586 
English
(c) 1998 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

SINCE THEIR INVENTION A DECADE AGO AT IBM AND STANFORD UNIVERSITY, atomic force microscopes (AFMS) have produced startling images of exotic atomic landscapes. The scopes perform their magic by dragging a superfine needle across a sample of material. The needle bumps up and down as the atoms that form its tip are repelled by atoms on the sample. A computer then translates the movement into dazzling, multicolored topographic drawings. 

Early AFMs used silicon tips. But in 1996, Nobel prize-winning chemist Richard E. Smalley replaced the silicon with a tough new carbon structure known as a ``nanotube,'' which proved more flexible. Now, in the July 2 Nature, Harvard University chemistry professor Charles M. Lieber offers a glimpse of what nanotube tips will do for biology. Lieber and his team chemically modified a nanotube so that the AFM needle itself can perform chemical analyses as it travels over the sample. Since the tube is made of carbon, Lieber explains, ``we can exploit well-developed organic reactions to attach various molecules that interact differently with the sample.'' That opens great possibilities. For example, it will be possible to explore features on a cell by attaching something to the nanotube that binds to a particular receptor. Or one could test whether a new drug molecule binds to a protein. 

AFMs still can't deliver 3-D images of molecules. That requires x-ray crystallography, which constructs images out of patterns of x-rays diffracted from crystals. ``But AFMs allow you to get functional information about the molecule you are studying,'' Lieber says. 

Document bw00000020010915du7d00255


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 107 *******************    



Editorials 

THE INNOVATIVE SOCIETY 

989 words 
31 August 1998
Business Week 
154 
Number 3593 
English
(c) 1998 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Consider this: An era of new technology, high productivity, fast growth, low inflation, great wealth--and tumultuous economic change, with stock market crashes and unexpected recessions around the globe. Sound like today's '90s? How about the entire century between 1870 and 1970? The broad sweep of modern economic history has been one of innovation and creative destruction. A Special Report by BUSINESS WEEK shows that, for the U.S., the 3%-plus growth of recent years is merely a return to the norm, not an anomaly, paving the way to a 21st Century Economy of profits and prosperity. But getting there will require a rethinking of many of the verities that Washington and global policymakers hold dear. New tools and rules will be needed in the 21st century, and this is true for individuals and companies as well as the nation as a whole. 

The U.S. economy is in the early stages of a powerful new wave of innovation, not the later stages of maturity. Information technology already spawns nearly a third of all growth. Biotechnology, the next big thing, is starting to roll out new products. Nanotechnology is poised to create a new generation of miniaturized consumer electronics early in the next decade. The innovation pipeline is full of breakthroughs. 

The very process of production is being revolutionized. Virtual integration is quickly replacing vertical integration as corporations use the Net to stitch together a seamless web of global suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, and customers. Take the amazing PalmPilot. The idea originated in a tiny software company, Palm Computing, now owned by 3COM. Palo Alto Design Group in California designed the product and had the parts manufactured in Taiwan. Flextronics, a subcontractor, assembled the parts in Singapore. A brilliant new product, from the minds of young software writers, on sale in less than a year from conception: It is a saga of technological brilliance, risk-taking grit, and global teamwork. 

It is a quintessentially American story. Indeed, an innovative, fast-paced economy plays to America's cultural strengths. Flexibility, creativity, and optimism come naturally to an immigrant society with a frontier history, where ``new'' is better than ``old,'' taking chances is valued over playing it safe, and making money is deemed superior to inheriting it. 

RISE AND FALL OF NATIONS There is, however, a price to be paid. History shows that a high-productivity, fast-growth economy is prone to greater, not fewer, shocks. Nations can rise and fall as they try to adapt to new technologies. It may be that Japan's unexpected decline was the first example of a major industrial country unable to adapt to information-age technologies, turning instead to a beggar-thy-neighbor policy of currency devaluation that helped trigger the collapse of Asian prosperity. And the ultimate success of European unification may well depend on Europe's ability to integrate technology across its borders. 

One thing is certain. An innovation-led economy requires new policies and new politics. Traditional liberal or conservative solutions to problems based on an industrial-era paradigm won't work. The real political split today in the U.S. is between innovation optimists who see an exuberant, fast-growing nation actively bestriding the global scene, and those who subscribe to a cramped view of the economy's potential and the role the country should play around the world. 

BOOST TRADE, TRIM TAXES This is what is needed to promote a pro-innovation growth strategy for the U.S. in the 21st century: -- TAXES. Less is more. People must retain the rewards of their work and risk. Tax cuts should be focused on creating wealth. That means marginal tax rates should be cut in preference to rewarding core constituencies. As for the Net, it should remain totally tax-free for as long as possible. -- REGULATION. Less and more are both needed. Entrepreneurs must be free to develop and sell products and services. That means cutting back the jungle of regs and curbing wild litigiousness. But in the frontier spaces of the Net, just the opposite is required. Rules must be drawn up on a whole range of issues, from electronic commerce to encryption. Private citizens get first crack, as they did on the Western frontier. If they fail, then the Texas Rangers must step in. -- EDUCATION. No panic is called for. The same education system blamed for the poor economic performance of the '80s now supports the exceptional expansion of the '90s. Truth is, there are many education systems in America. University education is the best in the world. Suburban schools are generally good. Urban private schools are good to exceptional. Only urban public schools are in serious trouble. The solutions are obvious: national standards, charter schools, more money, and, if urban public schools still don't work, vouchers. Period. -- TRADE. An open, vibrant, global economy is critical. Rising real wages and low unemployment prove it. Pass fast-track. But strongly insist that overseas countries open their markets if they want to sell in the U.S. -- IMMIGRATION. It's the lifeblood of innovation and entrepreneurship. Shift to a system favoring education instead of family ties. Raise temporary high-tech visa quotas. -- RESEARCH. Spend more on basic research in universities and increase support for students in engineering and sciences. -- SAFETY NET. It's a high-risk society. Faster growth and a budget surplus will save Social Security and Medicare, but medical insurance for all and portable pensions need work. 

Above all, the U.S. must recognize that an innovation-led global economy cannot prosper without sweeping reform of international financial institutions. Today the IMF is acting like the Fed of the 1930s--mistakenly tightening into a deflationary recession, threatening a global credit crunch. That is precisely what turned the 1930s into an economic nightmare. As the global economy moves into the 21st century, it is the one mistake that must be avoided at all costs. 

Document bw00000020010915du8v002ue


More Like This

 Article 108 *******************    



The 21st Century Economy: THE INNOVATIVE EDGE: TECHNOLOGY 

THE NEXT WAVE One day, scientists will be able to create materials atom by atom. The upshot: Doing everything nature can do, and more 

By Neil Gross and Otis Port in New York 
2,314 words 
31 August 1998
Business Week 
80 
Number 3593 
English
(c) 1998 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Silently and efficiently, the new team member toils away in a chemistry lab at the University of California at Santa Barbara. With perfect precision, she lays down an ultrathin layer of an organic substrate. Onto this, she deposits interlocking calcite crystals, atom by atom. The two layers bond into a delicate crystal lattice. Under a microscope, it calls to mind the flawless thin-film layers on a silicon chip. 

But there is no clean room, vacuum chamber, or chip gear in this lab, where professors Galen D. Stucky and Daniel E. Morse brainstorm new materials. For that matter, the ``team member'' is no ordinary staff researcher. She's a mollusk--an abalone. And like so many of nature's creations, she has acquired, through millions of years of evolution, an exquisite form of molecular machinery to create her shell--machinery that leaves today's best fabrication tools in the dust. 

At Santa Barbara and hundreds of other research centers, scientists and engineers are getting ready for the next great technological revolution--the leap into the world of the very small. Nature has an unrivaled genius for designing and producing tough, versatile materials--from seashells to spider's silk--in self-replicating ``factories,'' and at an atomic scale. Scientists want to clone this ingenuity, to forge new industries of the 21st century. ``Atom by atom--that's how nature designs and builds things,'' muses Cherry Murray, Physical Research Lab director at Lucent Technologies' Bell Labs. ``If you could influence design at such a scale, you could make any material you ever wanted.'' BYE BYE PC BUGS? That ultimate goal is still mostly a glimmer. But the high-tech landscape is on the brink of change. The development pipelines at many high-tech companies already showcase a whole new breed of miniaturized marvels with capabilities well beyond today's chips. Over the next half-decade, these so-called ``microelectromechanical systems'' (MEMS)--which combine sensors, motors, and digital smarts on a single sliver of silicon--are likely to supplant more expensive components in computer hardware, automobile engines, factory assembly lines, and dozens of other processes and products. The operating software for these devices, now in the process of being written, is expected to suffer neither the bugs nor the bloat of today's PC programs. 

Going somewhat further out--probably 15 to 20 years--high-tech visionaries foresee a transition that's far more radical and disruptive. Its quintessence won't be smaller, cheaper, faster electronics--though we will have all that in abundance. The transition scientists speak of involves nothing less than the hijacking of nature's own creative machinery. 

In medicine, this spells the ability to repair or replace the body's failing organs. In manufacturing, it means coercing molecules to assemble into useful devices--the same way that crystals and living creatures assemble themselves. The coming wave of miniaturization and molecular electronics--sometimes called ``nanotechnology''--is taking shape at the intersection of chemistry, physics, biology, and electrical engineering. And if it crests as many scientists predict, it will bring a wholesale industrial transformation, more dramatic than the late-20th century flowering of microelectronics. 

No one dismisses the enormity of the challenges. Atoms, at room temperature, inhabit a turbulent world ruled by forces we don't fully understand. Today's best theories, scientific instruments, and computer simulations provide only imperfect access to this domain. 

Why, then, do so many scientists believe in a Molecular Revolution? Because some of the necessary capabilities are already within reach. As scientists at Bell Labs figure it, the widths of the circuit lines that make up electronic elements on chips will shrink 80%, to just 50 nanometers, by 2010. That's 50 billionths of a meter--the distance of about 300 atoms tethered in a row--and roughly the thickness of the protein layers in the abalone's shell. 

In other words, engineers are already plunging deep into nature's hidden preserve. And in life sciences, they've gone even further. Biotechnologists can tailor antibodies that fight cancer. And they can slip new genes into plants or animals, to produce plastics or drugs (page 86). Nano-engineers believe they can build on this base, and write new recipes or scripts that will instruct unruly atoms to form desired materials. The first successes--though not quite at the atomic level--are already visible. Bell Labs boasts of chips that literally pick themselves up off a substrate. And at the University of Rochester, researchers coax polymeric molecules to form hollow cylinders and solid rings. Once perfected, such devices alone stand to bring enormous savings to many industries. Says Venkatesh Narayanamurti, dean of the engineering college at UC-Santa Barbara: ``The Internet is nothing compared to what's coming.'' QUAKE WARNINGS. The shifting economics are already evident with the arrival of MEMS. Early mass-produced applications include tiny automobile accelerometers, which trigger air bags in a crash, and a host of other industrial sensors. But as sketched out by Sandia National Laboratory's MEMS research chief, Paul J. McWhorter, the next wave will be far more dramatic. Deployed in networks, MEMS will sense one another and configure themselves to perform information-processing tasks. In the not-so-distant future, MEMS will steer our planes, monitor our health, and warn us of earthquakes, faulty aircraft parts, or cracks in bridges. 

Since most MEMS chips have less circuitry than memory chips or microprocessors, they can be fabricated inexpensively on older chipmaking lines. That signals the first stage of a whole new paradigm for technology evolution, says Bell Labs' Murray. In the past, breakthrough devices carried a premium when they hit the market, and they were deployed sparingly. But with MEMS, Murray says, from the beginning, ``you can manufacture in high volume at low cost. This has the potential to break down the old economic order.'' 

Telecom, she says, will be an important testing ground. At Lucent, Siemens, and Tellabs, engineers want to shrink whole hunks of the next-generation telephone and data networks onto MEMS, possibly beginning in as little as two years. The arena they have targeted is a new mode of high-speed optical transmission called wave division multiplexing, in which a single beam of light is split into multiple colors, or channels, and zipped through fiber. Lucent's Bell Labs already has shown how today's pricey prototypes could be replaced by tiny microscopic mirrors sculpted onto MEMS. Combine that with satellite technology, and long-distance communications costs drop to zero. ``This changes how meetings are conducted, how banking is done, how information is transported, everything,'' Murray says. 

Wireless MEMS offer similar promises. At the University of California at Los Angeles, a team of 50 researchers is working on single-chip MEMS radios that could replace the $500 cards used in today's wireless data networks. In about five years, says William J. Kaiser, chairman of UCLA's electrical engineering department, all PCs and palmtop computers will come with radio MEMS. ``And they'll be embedded in the ceiling in your office cafeteria, your hotel room, your airplane,'' he predicts, ``all of them seamlessly linked to the Internet.'' 

Around the same time, says California Institute of Technology physics professor Michael L. Roukes, vast numbers of wireless MEMS could be deployed as seismic and metal stress sensors, in patient-monitoring systems in hospitals, and as communications systems on satellites. ``This is absolutely not science fiction,'' Roukes insists. ``It's here and now.'' 

In computing, disk storage capacity could be increased a hundred-fold by a MEMS-based instrument called an atomic force microscope (AFM). Such ``probe'' microscopes, invented at IBM and Stanford University, produce images of atoms by dragging a superfine needle over a surface (above). But these new probes also enable data storage on a near-atomic scale, since they can nudge atoms from one position to another. It's a painstaking process, today. But researchers can speed it up by clustering hundreds of microscope tips on the same silicon device. 

Health care is another beckoning frontier for MEMS--and its economics closely mirror those of the computer industry. Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory has developed a MEMS alternative to today's multithousand-dollar DNA sequencers. Its parts can be produced for less than $100. And the same notebook-size box can also include a miniature blood analyzer. Blood analyzer chips could continuously monitor an out patient's blood and radio the doctor at the first sign of a crisis. 

Sturdier, more aerodynamic airplanes are another big goal. By studding the back and wings of a plane with thousands of MEMS-size flaps, engineers can alter the lift and drag to minutely control the plane. In theory, planes with MEMS wouldn't rely so much on wear-prone rudders, wing flaps, or tail elevators. The concept has been proven in wind tunnels. And the military's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), which is seeding MEMS research to the tune of $47 million a year, is now test-flying one-seventh-scale planes. DISTANT DREAMS. DARPA is interested in military applications, such as radio MEMS that can assemble themselves into networks in a battle or crisis situation. ``You drop them off the back of a truck, they find each other, and establish communication links,'' says Albert P. Pisano, director of DARPA's MEMS program. In addition, DARPA is spending millions on so-called microbot planes that would be outfitted with MEMS sensors to detect biochemical weapons or relay images of enemy positions. 

But in business environments as well, such devices can spell huge efficiency gains. Office networks wouldn't need to be configured manually--they could assemble themselves right out of the box. Laptop computers and cell phones with built-in radio MEMS and GPS circuits will always know exactly where they are, and how to connect to the nearest Internet backbone. MEMS also can be assembled into more complex robotic organisms. Kristofer S.J. Pister, an electrical engineer at UCLA, and two Vanderbilt University mechanical engineers are among those who are developing insect-like robots, which one day will be able to handle assembly jobs in electronics factories, for example, or hunt for survivors in collapsed buildings. 

To be sure, the vision of nanotechnology pur-ists--teaching smart devices to assemble themselves from the ground up, atom by atom--is still a distant dream. As Caltech's Roukes puts it, ``The only true nanotechnologist today is Mother Nature.'' But slowly, humans are learning to mimic her handiwork. For example, by vaporizing carbon in vacuum chambers, Rice University physicist Richard E. Smalley and his colleagues create atomically perfect carbon nanotubes that don't exist in nature. NO RETURN. The tubes are chemically stable, about 100 times tougher than steel, and scientists have just begun to explore their possible applications in industry. This summer, a Dutch research team turned one of Smalley's nanotubes into the world's first single-molecule transistor functioning at room temperature. Just 4 to 5 atoms in diameter, the circuit shattered a size barrier that ordinary silicon devices can't hope to cross, and it offered the first physical proof that atom-scale electronics are feasible. IBM has also demonstrated carbon nanotube transistors. 

How far off is a commercial device? Smalley admits that going from one experimental carbon transistor to one trillion of them on a chip is a staggering challenge. ``We have good days and bad days,'' he says. 

That phrase perfectly expresses the zeitgeist of nanotechnology at the turn of the millennium. But few scientists seem inclined to turn back. The results will be a big surprise to economists who believe that industry already has reaped all the easy benefits of the Information Revolution. The revolution has barely begun. 

Voices: Richard Smalley 

TITLE Professor of chemistry and physics, Rice University. 55. 

CONTRIBUTIONS After sharing the 1996 Nobel Prize for discovering carbon 60 molecules, or ``buckyballs,'' he's working with elongated forms called carbon nanotubes. These could be the basis for chips with circuits the size of single molecules. 

IN HIS WORDS ``Nature creates enzymes that are precise down to the last atom. But she doesn't make buckytubes. Maybe we are nature's way of making these.'' 

Voices: Cherry Murray 

TITLE Director, Physical Research Lab, Lucent Technologies' Bell Labs. 46 

CONTRIBUTIONS This year, her lab has unleashed a flood of innovations, from exotic lasers to tiny telecom devices known as optical MEMS. The latter could go commercial in two years. 

IN HER WORDS ``MEMS could have a huge impact on optical networking. And they'll come in at the low end, not the high end. That's the disruptive part.'' 

Photograph: Richard Smalley PHOTOGRAPH BY PAM FRANCIS Photograph: Cherry Murray PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE PETERS Photograph: CONQUERING UNIMAGINABLY SMALL WORLDS: Scientists are learning how to manipulate individual atoms--a brand of alchemy that, if fully realized, could dramatically reshape the economy. One early development: the atomic force microscope, invented at IBM and Stanford, with a tip that tapers to the width of a few dozen atoms (pictured above at 2,500 times its actual size). When heated, it can burn up to 100 billion tiny pits into a square inch of plastic--yielding storage disks with 150 times the capacity of today's CD-ROMs. But atom-level technologies have applications that go far beyond data storage. Scientists at Rice University, Harvard, and elsewhere have attached superstrong carbon nanotubes (computer image, left) to microscope tips to probe and manipulate features on cells. Eventually, engineers may prompt nanotubes to assemble themselves into fantastically small electronic devices, far faster and smarter than today's chips. PHOTOGRAPH BY IBM RESEARCH 


Document bw00000020010915du8v002xp


More Like This

 Article 109 *******************    



The 21st Century Economy: Introduction 

THE 21st CENTURY ECONOMY Don't expect volatility to go away, but as the '90s come to a close, all the elements are in place for an era of long-term growth 

422 words 
31 August 1998
Business Week 
58 
Number 3593 
English
(c) 1998 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Economies, like living organisms, always evolve in response to challenges and opportunities. The changes can be dramatic. 

Only 10 years ago, Japan was triumphant and the U.S. was struggling with slow growth and a hobbled banking system. 

But today's statistics tell a very different story. By virtually every measure, the 1990s have turned out to be a decade of unexpected prosperity for the U.S.--what BUSINESS WEEK and others have called the New Economy. The numbers are impressive: a 70% increase in real profits since 1990, inflation below 2%, 4.5% unemployment, plus rising real wages, even for the lowest-paid workers. 

What's next? For two months, a team of BUSINESS WEEK reporters and editors has examined every aspect of the economy, from technology to politics to higher education. 

Our findings: The '90s are no fluke. Despite Asia's woes, all the ingredients are in place for a surge of innovation that could rival any in history. Over the next decade or so, the New Economy--so far propelled mainly by information technology--may turn out to be only the initial stage of a much broader flowering of technological, business, and financial creativity. 

Call it the 21st Century Economy--an economy that, driven by technological progress, can grow at a 3% pace for years to come. The innovation pipeline is fuller than it has been in decades. With the advent of the Internet, the information revolution seems to be spreading and accelerating rather than slowing down. Biotechnology is on the verge of having a major economic impact. And in labs across the country, scientists are driving toward the frontiers of nanotechnology, with the goal of creating new devices that can transform entire industries. 

What's more, the U.S. economy seems to be undergoing a wholesale rejuvenation. Businesses, financial service firms, and universities are reinventing themselves. Even politicians and policymakers are starting to grasp the new technological and economic realities. 

To be sure, the path from the New Economy to the 21st Century Economy will likely be a bumpy one. Each innovative surge creates economic and social ills, from recessions to stock-market crashes to widespread job losses--and this one won't be different. But that's the price a nation must pay to achieve the benefits of dynamic change. 

Document bw00000020010915du8v002xs


More Like This

 Article 110 *******************    



Technology 

Junkyard powerhouse A startling view of computation from some Hewlett-Packard researchers holds that perfect answers can come from defective chips. 

BY Dolly Setton 
893 words 
7 September 1998
Forbes 
210 
English
(c) 1998 Forbes Inc.

A BUNCH OF DUTCH engineering students interning at Hewlett-Packard's Palo Alto laboratories in 1995 wanted to translate magnetic resonance imaging data into a three-dimensional map of the brain's arteries. HP gave them a refrigerator-size gizmo made of junk parts--processor chips with high defect rates. The experimental machine, called a Teramac, ran 100 times faster than a top-end workstation, and the students went home thrilled. 

What is this Teramac? Tera means "trillion," signifying the designers' intention that the machine perform a trillion operations per second. It is the first computer purposely made out of junk--processor and memory chips that "any sane engineer would refuse to ship," in the words of Philip Kuekes, 51, who helped to design it. The software detects any hardware flaws and simply steps around them. 

Meet a manufacturing idea that may supplant a concept at the very heart of modern life: the concept that parts should be so precisely formed that they become interchangeable. "We're proposing to do the exact opposite," says Kuekes. "Get rid of mechanical precision and use computer power to make up for the imprecision." In the Teramac, quantity substitutes for quality. 

There is precedent for the Teramac approach--in the peripherals business. Since flawless disk drives are costly, it is cheaper to supply highly reliable mainframe storage via arrays of inexpensive redundant disks. If each file is stored in duplicate on multiple disks, and if the multiple copies are carefully compared whenever the file is retrieved, the data can be made as close to error-free as you want. It helps that small disk drives of the sort that go into consumer products are getting dirt cheap. 

The same kind of economics surfaces in the chip business. Quantity is easy to come by: As Moore's Law dictates, the transistor count on chips is already in the millions and will someday reach into the billions. But quality is costly. Producing defect-free chips with ever more microscopic detail will demand factories costing tens of billions of dollars. One day it will cost too much to continue the process, and Moore's Law will slow to a crawl. Yet you could extend the Law's life quite a bit if you could teach computers to tolerate defects. 

HP got the defect-riddenbehemoth to work by having software make up for the failings of hardware. First, the software spent a week of processing time to find, map and catalog the 220,000 defects that sullied the hardware. For most computers, a single one of those defects would have been fatal. 

Then the software set about rewiring the machine to get around the trouble spots. It had the means to do so because Teramac's chips, made by HP, came with extra logic elements (called "gates")--backup systems, as it were. "You could even clip wires or purposely break a part and then reconfigure the computer, and it would work fine," says James Heath, a UCLA chemistry professor who collaborated onTeramac. 

You might wonder how a machine built of defective parts could correctly test itself for defects in the first place. It turns out that 7% of its parts--the ones that diagnose and correct errors--do have to be perfect. 

So why not switch immediately to these self-fixing computers? Because it's not economical yet. Teramac relies on especially large chips, which use more silicon and are therefore expensive. For now, it's still cheaper to junk defective Pentiums when they come out of the factory, and use only the perfect ones. 

As a result, the Teramac architecture is most likely to find its first applications in niche markets that require bigger chips. One likely prospect: digital cameras, which need a large light-sensing chip to get a sharp picture. Other applications include special-purpose computing, as in a television set-top box or in medical electronic instruments. Because Teramac rewires itself readily, it can optimize its hardware, first for one task, then another. In other words, it can substitute hardware for software. 

Further down the road lies perhaps Teramac's most promising application, as an enabling technology for super-small circuitry. Such nanoelectronic devices, as they are called, still smack of science fiction, with parts that aren't etched but are self-assembled, almost like living things. The hoped-for result would be a workstation- standard computer smaller than a grain of sand. 

You could never guarantee the perfection of a trillion transistors that had been cooked up in this fashion. You'd need a computer architecture that could live with the defects. 

Says Heath, who first did work on nanocomputer components in 1992: "Teramac is very significant; we would have been wandering in the woods without it. We'd have continued making wiring and gates in beakers without knowing how to assemble them into a computer." 

First on the agenda is getting Teramac to pay for itself. If the cost of perfect parts rises fast enough, it will make sense to use a larger quantity of junkyard parts. It could happen in as little as five years, says Stanley Williams, a physical chemist who has used Teramac in his own research. 

Document fb00000020010917du9700123


More Like This

 Article 111 *******************    


Features/Seed Money 

Extreme Venture Capital ARCH Venture Partners unearths ideas for startups where most VCs don't care to tread: the ivory tower. 

David Stipp 
3,249 words 
26 October 1998
Fortune Magazine 
143+ 
Issue: October 26, 1998 Vol. 138 No. 8 
English
Copyright (c) 1998 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

The Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory is only 18 miles north of Wall Street, but it runs on an entirely different clock. At the abbey-like research center overlooking the Hudson River, events that unfold in less than a century barely register--Lamont's cloistered scientists ponder things like the movements of continents and the genesis of ice ages. 

Yet when the contrarians at ARCH Venture Partners heard about Lamont, they were eager to explore it for seeds of new companies. They soon found one: a scheme to take a navigational device for nuclear submarines and transform it into a divining rod for oil. Bell Geospace, a company ARCH formed in 1994 to pursue the idea, stumbled at first--not surprising, given that it was trying to commercialize an ultrasecret military technology glimpsed in The Hunt for Red October, Tom Clancy's 1984 thriller about a defecting Soviet submarine. But now Bell is starting to take off--in September, Texaco awarded it a contract to probe 4,500 square miles in the Gulf of Mexico. 

Chalk up another improbable hit for ARCH, a Chicago venture firm that specializes in ferreting out hidden treasure in the nation's ivory towers. Kleiner Perkins and other venture capitalist giants occasionally dip into academia. But "ARCH is the only good example of a firm I know of whose institutional format is incubating companies from academic labs," says Larry Bock, a venture capitalist in San Diego whose firm, CW Group, has worked with ARCH in funding early- stage companies. 

"We've found most of our projects by walking the halls at universities," says Steven Lazarus, one of ARCH's four managing directors. The list of schools ARCH explores includes more than a dozen off the venture industry's beaten track--the universities of Michigan, Washington, and Chicago, for instance, and even City College of New York. ARCH also walks halls at federal laboratories, another venue seldom visited by VCs. 

Most venture capitalists regard such places as byzantine backwaters populated by fractious eggheads. "We just haven't found {the places ARCH goes} all that fruitful," acknowledges John Mumford of Crosspoint Venture Partners, a Woodside, Calif., firm known as a leading seed investor. "Entrepreneurial people typically aren't in those institutions, and you need entrepreneurs to start and run companies." 

There are two prominent exceptions: Stanford University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which have long traditions of spinning off businesses with venture money. Not surprisingly, about half of the nation's $13 billion of venture investments last year went to California and Massachusetts companies--northern California firms alone pulled in 28% of the total, according to Venture Economics Information Services, a Newark, N.J., company that tracks the VC business. 

ARCH's hinterland hunting has turned up one of its industry's most diverse investment portfolios. "The venture business tends to be narrowly focused," says Josh Lerner, a Harvard Business School professor who wrote a 1993 monograph on ARCH. "For a long time, more than 80% of its disbursements have been in just two fields, information technology and health care. ARCH has been more willing to look outside the box." Its startups include companies involved in electronics repair, oil exploration, lasers, and materials science (for a selection, see table). 

ARCH's focus on seed investing also runs counter to an industry trend. Since the mid-1980s, the average size of U.S. venture funds has more than doubled, reaching $76 million last year, thanks to inflows from pension-fund managers and other institutional investors seeking a piece of the next Microsoft before it goes public. As a result, VCs have increasingly invested at later corporate stages than they used to; only about a quarter of venture disbursements last year, or $3.1 billion, went to early-stage companies, says Venture Economics. The reason: It's a lot easier to administer a $100 million fund disbursed as, say, $4 million chunks in established companies ramping up to go public than as $200,000 seed investments. Venture firms typically derive much of their compensation from fees geared to the total capital they manage--so why bother breaking it into teeny bites for corporate newborns? 

"The idea of VCs rolling up their shirtsleeves and starting companies out of a garage is really a myth," says Jesse Reyes, Venture Economics' research chief. There are still a lot of venture capitalists who do early-stage investing, but even those "tend to wait until there's actually a product shipping." While the Internet craze has bumped up seed funding over the past few years, he adds, "it's not a bad joke to say that many VCs have become investment bankers in sheep's clothing." 

All the more reason to invest where other VCs ain't, says Lazarus. A surfeit of money is now chasing high-tech wonderkids in Silicon Valley and around Boston. Their best ideas often spark auctionlike bidding among rival VC firms. In the offbeat places ARCH looks, commercially promising ideas are harder to find. But making seed investments in them is cheaper, potentially yielding higher returns. 

It remains to be seen whether this logic will play out as Lazarus hopes. Since 1993, ARCH has handily raised two sizable venture funds, mostly from institutions such as State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. and John Deere Pension Trust, and is now disbursing the $107 million in its second kitty. Most of the payoffs are at least several years away. 

Still, ARCH is getting a reputation for prizing valuable nuggets from ivied walls. The University of Washington, for instance, "has proved to be a Comstock lode," says Lazarus. ARCH's first bet there paid off in just a few months. In 1996 it led seed investing in NetBot, a company that sprang from research at the school on software "agents" to aid online shoppers. Less than a year later, Internet search company Excite bought NetBot for $35 million in stock, giving ARCH a $9.9 million return on a $1.3 million investment. 

With its wide purview, ARCH has proved adept at cobbling together startups that buy patent rights from different institutions' labs, none of which may have enough intellectual property to go it alone. For instance, Caliper Technologies, a Palo Alto company that ARCH co- founded in 1995, has rolled together patents from Oak Ridge National Laboratory, the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard, Princeton, and other schools to develop technology for fast, automated chemical analysis with miniature "lab on a chip" devices. 

ARCH's main claim to fame may be its ability to deal with university bureaucracy, a rapport traceable to its academic roots. Worried about U.S. competitiveness and frustrated by a dearth of commercial spinoffs from federally funded research, Congress in 1980 passed two bills to promote technology transfer from universities and national labs. But problems persisted--for instance, an ambitious plan for a $100 million tech-transfer fund at the University of California was killed by faculty critics. 

In 1986 officials at the University of Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory thought they saw a way to break the tech-transfer logjam and commercialize their researchers' work. They set up a nonprofit company called ARCH Development Corp. and chose Lazarus, a former Baxter International executive, to head it. The company had a shoestring budget and two employees--Lazarus and a secretary. To boost his credibility with professors, the university named him an associate dean at its business school and gave him an office there. 

Other schools had mounted similar efforts, but most focused on licensing professors' patents to established companies. Lazarus was more ambitious: He wanted to spawn companies based on such patents, since licensed inventions often wither on the shelf at big companies- -the not-invented-here syndrome. But he would need a lot of help, especially with the never-ending chore of sorting through the academic haystack to find golden needles worthy of funding. 

Imitating fellow academics, Lazarus brought student power to bear. "In the first year, I got 20 MBA students working for me free," he says. "They were sentinels walking the halls looking for seed ideas. They looked and spoke like post-docs, and scientists felt more comfortable talking with them than with gray-haired guys in suits." Most had worked at corporations, he adds, and were aiming "to transmute themselves from worker bees into general managers of their own enterprises." Three of Lazarus' most eager understudies, Keith Crandell, Robert T. Nelsen, and Clinton Bybee, stayed on as ARCH partners after getting their MBAs. 

With $9 million cobbled together from investors with ties to the university and from the university's endowment fund, ARCH invested in a dozen startups. The results were mediocre. Says Crandell: "Two years into our first fund, we had eight or nine companies on the verge of running out of money. It was hard to get out of bed in the morning." Five went under or were sold at a loss to ARCH's investors. The fund's cumulative return was 14%--ho-hum by VC standards at the time. Says Lazarus: "We made mistakes we won't make again," mainly misjudging market potential and underestimating the amount of money some startups needed. 

Still, ARCH had developed a formula it felt basically worked. Importantly, it skirted a land mine that blew up similar efforts to bridge business and academia--professors' resistance to enterprises they regard as diverting university research to corporate ends. Part of the trick, says Lazarus, is keeping a high profile: "We disclose what we're doing to the entire faculty." That doesn't prevent academic purists from dismissing ARCH's staffers as meddling minions of Mammon, but it prevents imbroglios about covert conflicts of interest, such as professors' quietly using their university labs to do R&D for a company they have on the side. While its startups engage professors as consultants, ARCH avoids leaning on them too much--it generally seeks business veterans to do most of the work. 

ARCH also stresses that it doesn't hinder academic publishing. That's usually not an issue, says Lazarus, thanks to the firm's sentinels--they tend to pick up on important discoveries very early, enabling ARCH to orchestrate patent filings before beans are spilled in scientific journals. With their varied interests, ARCH's scouts also help maintain the unusual diversity of its portfolio, letting the firm spread its risks in a way that more specialized venture funds can't. 

Inspired by inquiries from other universities hoping to emulate ARCH, Lazarus and crew in 1993 reformulated the firm's operations to seek deals at far-flung schools and national labs. They raised $30 million, then set out for new places. One was Columbia University, whose vice provost, Michael Crow, had recently been asked to invigorate the school's technology-transfer program. Facing the usual bureaucratic inertia, Crow knew just what to do. he says, "I called the guys at ARCH." 

One of its hall walkers, William Doyle, was soon installed at Columbia's business school as an adjunct professor. On Crow's advice, Doyle dropped in at one of the university's little-known satellites, Lamont-Doherty, the earth-science center north of Manhattan. What followed was a classic instance of ARCH's calculated serendipity. 

Doyle soon found himself talking with researchers Roger N. Anderson and Robin Bell about the U.S. Navy's classified technology for helping submarines run silent and deep. As Tom Clancy fans know, subs' navigational tasks are complicated by the need to traverse the murky depths with minimal use of sonar--its pings might reveal their positions to the enemy. In the 1970s the Navy launched a top-secret program to tackle the problem with the help of a technology called gravity gradiometry. 

The basic idea wasn't new--in fact, it's mentioned as a historical curiosity in geology textbooks, says Bell, who recently wrote about it in Scientific American. In the 1890s a Hungarian physicist invented a device that could detect tiny variations in gravity's tug. His gradiometer--essentially a metal beam, with weights at both ends, suspended by a wire--was so sensitive that it could register the gravitational force exerted by a person standing near it. 

Geologists after World War I put the invention to work finding massive underground deposits of salt often associated with oil-- gradiometers can detect them because salt is less dense than rock and therefore exerts an infinitesimally gentler tug. But using the finicky instruments required removing swaths of trees and other confounding gravity sources all around, and painstakingly protecting the instruments from wind or temperature changes. By the 1930s, the oil industry had switched to less precise but far easier ways to get a window on the subterranean world. 

Fast-forward 50 years: After expending more than $200 million on development, engineers at Textron's Bell Aerospace unit achieved their goal: a compact, computerized gradiometer that could be used in ships or even aircraft. Technically known as a full-tensor gradiometer, it measures how gravity varies in three dimensions, revealing much more about objects of scrutiny than did earlier gradiometers. Despite showing the way for the Soviet sub in Clancy's novel, though, the technology was never deployed in nonfiction subs-- the U.S. version was still only in test mode at the end of the Cold War. "The Navy was using it to build navigational maps of the sea floor," says Anderson, "but they kept seeing things they didn't understand. We were consulting with them, and they would say things like, 'This crazy gravity machine says there's a mountain, and the sonar shows there's nothing there.'" 

That was actually good news to the Lamont researchers; it suggested the device was registering masses under the sea floor--just what geologists want to do. Shortly before the man from ARCH showed up, the scientists at Lamont had learned something else. "For a long time I'd wanted to use the technology for research, but the guys at Bell Aerospace always shoved me away, " says Bell, who had tried a relatively primitive gradiometer to study Antarctic geology. "Then one day, one of them asked if I knew of any applications." Hint, hint: With defense funding on the wane, funding for the gradiometer had been cut, and the Textron unit was desperately trying to emerge from the dark side. With ARCH's help, the scientists showed a way: Their new company, Bell Geospace, would license the machine for use in the oil patch. 

There was a hitch: The technology was still classified. "Looking at that, 99 out of 100 VCs would have taken a pass" on investing in it, says Crow, the Columbia vice provost. Plowing ahead, ARCH added a potent player: John Brett, a retired Singer Co. executive and former Defense Department official with top-secret clearance. He made such a strong case to the Navy that it leased one of its research ships to Bell in order to test whether gradiometry could register signs of oil in the Gulf of Mexico. The ship came complete with a Navy crew authorized to operate the gear. Funded by $75,000 in seed money from ARCH, plus $25,000 from Brett, the test went well--among other things, it revealed a geological formation missed by an oil company's survey with seismic instruments, which delineate underground objects by bouncing sound waves off them. Anderson, who frequently consults with oil companies, soon lined up several to buy gradiometry data. 

A series of snags nearly scuttled the startup. Though the Navy soon declassified the technology, Bell Geospace nearly ran out of money waiting to license it--Textron wanted more than the startup could pay. After finally working out a deal in 1996, Bell hired a management team and raised money to develop a version of the technology geared for oil exploration. All told, "we've raised $25 million in four rounds," says Brett, now Bell's chairman. "The fact that ARCH stuck with us was important. It made other investors feel secure enough to stay too." 

So far ARCH has invested about $6.9 million in Bell, including $3.4 million in the latest round, completed in July. The firm's participation in Bell's later rounds shows a common pattern: As seed firms raise bigger sums, they move away from pure seed investing. Explains Crandell: "If we put $280,000 into a company as a seed investor, we might get $2 million out at the IPO. That's a very good return. But if we put in $2 million in a follow-on round, we might get $8 million"--less impressive in percentage terms but more lucrative in total dollars. 

Is ARCH destined to become another investment banker in sheep's clothing? No way, says Lazarus. "We are an oxymoron, a $100-million- plus seed fund," he insisted in a recent speech. While ARCH is doing more follow-on investing in companies it has helped start, he adds that it isn't shifting to an investment-banker-like strategy of funding lots of companies it has not helped form. ARCH's partners still spend most of their time working on startups. They're extending their horizons to places that even they find surprising. Recently ARCH invested in ImproveNet, a Redwood City, Calif., startup that helps consumers find home-improvement contractors via the Web. ARCH discovered the fledgling right in Silicon Valley--it was hatched at Stanford, of all places. 

{BOX} 

SELECTED STARTUPS FUNDED BY ARCH 

COMPANY FOUNDED ARCH INVESTMENT Location in thousands 

Nanophase Technologies 1989 $1,500 Burr Ridge, Ill. 

TECHNOLOGY Ultra-fine ceramic materials for cosmetics and electronics 

SOURCE OF PATENTS Argonne Natl. Laboratory, Northwestern University 

Optobionics 1990 $306 Wheaton, Ill. 

{TECHNOLOGY} Artificial vision for the blind 

{SOURCE OF PATENTS} Founding scientists 

R2 Technology 1993 $1,000 Los Altos, Calif. 

{TECHNOLOGY} Computer-aided diagnosis based on mammography analysis 

{SOURCE OF PATENTS} University of Chicago, Sandia National Laboratory 

IDUN Pharmaceuticals 1993 $500 La Jolla, Calif. 

{TECHNOLOGY} Anticancer and other drugs 

{SOURCE OF PATENTS} University of Chicago, MIT, Washington University 

Caliper Technologies 1995 $876 Palo Alto 

{TECHNOLOGY} Lab on a chip for miniaturized biochemical analysis 

{SOURCE OF PATENTS} Oak Ridge Natl. Laboratory, Harvard, U. of Pennsylvania, and other schools 

Appliant 1997 $2,100 Seattle 

{TECHNOLOGY} Computer programs for troubleshooting corporate software 

{SOURCE OF PATENTS} University of Washington 

Disposition Services Group 1997 $1,300 San Diego 

{TECHNOLOGY} Service for repairing and reselling consumer electronics 

{SOURCE OF PATENTS} Founders 

Quote: THE PLACES ARCH GOES AREN'T "ALL THAT FRUITFUL" FOR US, SAYS ONE VC. MANY VCS HAVE BECOME "INVESTMENT BANKERS IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING." ARCH ENLISTS GRAD STUDENTS TO DIG FOR ACADEMIC IDEAS WORTH FUNDING. ARCH DISARMS CAMPUS CRITICS BY DISCLOSING ITS ACTIVITIES TO FACULTY. 

COLOR PHOTO: TOM MADAY ARCH managing director Steven Lazarus at Illinois Superconductor, a spinoff from nearby Argonne National Laboratory {Steven Lazarus} COLOR PHOTO: TOM MADAY ARCH's four principals--from left, Robert T. Nelsen, Lazarus, Clinton Bybee, and Keith Crandell--started by walking the halls at the University of Chicago. {Robert T. Nelsen, Steven Lazarus, Clinton Bybee, and Keith Crandell} COLOR PHOTO ARCH startup Bell Geospace helps find oil with this formerly top-secret device. COLOR PHOTO: ANDREW GARN ARCH formed Bell Geospace with scientists Roger N. Anderson and Robin Bell. {Roger N. Anderson and Robin Bell} 


Document fortu00020010917duaq000sh


More Like This

 Article 112 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANOTUBES TO LIGHT UP GLASS DISPLAYS 

Neil Gross EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
215 words 
23 November 1998
Business Week 
137 
Number 3605 
English
(c) 1998 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

SINCE THEIR DISCOVERY IN 1991, slender molecules known as carbon nanotubes have entranced scientists. The tubes, an elongated form of carbon-60 molecules known as buckyballs, are extremely tough and can function either as conductors or as semiconductors. But growing the tubes in a form suited to electronics applications has proven extremely difficult. 

Not anymore. Zhifeng Ren, a research associate professor of physics and chemistry at the University of Buffalo, has developed a process for growing usable nanotubes--each just a few billionths of a meter in diameter--at relatively low temperatures. Like other scientists, Ren uses lasers to evaporate chemicals and form a carbon residue. He broke new ground, however, when he combined acetylene and ammonia gases in a chemical-vapor deposition technique. Within a few minutes, his method can produce hundreds of millions of nanotubes, growing in neat rows, perpendicular to the surface of a glass panel. 

Ren says the first application might be a new type of flat-panel display. The nanotubes could precisely deliver electrons to phosphor dots on a glass plate, causing them to glow and create a picture. Scientists at Sandia National Laboratories are helping Ren test his tubes and find potential commercial partners. 

Document bw00000020010915dubn003ue


More Like This

 Article 113 *******************    



Cover Story 

Immortality at last: Ray Kurzweil's new book is a real stunner. He predicts that in the fairly near future people will be half-human, half-machine. 

BY Daniel Lyons 
842 words 
30 November 1998
Forbes 
183 
English
(c) 1998 Forbes Inc.

In four decades computers will be smarter than we are. Their software will imitate our brains so well that you won't know whether it's a person or machine you're dealing with on the phone or the Internet. 

Artificial intelligence (AI) has been a big disappointment to many early backers, but that's because they expected too much too soon, according to Raymond Kurzweil, AI guru and author of The Age of Spiritual Machines (Viking, January 1999), his third book. 

Kurzweil doesn't care much about expert systems such as those spawned by Edward Feigenbaum; they're useful, he says, but limited. He's more interested in finding a way to "reverse engineer" the human brain so that we can download everything about ourselves--our memories, our dreams, our personalities--into a computer, a process he calls "reinstantiation."Immortality at last. 

The line between machines and people will blur even further as we age and we'll be inserting machines into people to replace aging or inadequate body and mind functions. Just as artificial hips now restore human body functions, so too will neural implants enhance our hearing, vision and memory. 

Kurzweil, 50, is not just a dreamer. Over the past 25 years he has built and sold four companies. His first, Kurzweil Computer Products, built a reading machine for the blind and was bought by Xerox. One of its first customers was musician Stevie Wonder, whose friendship with Kurzweil led to the development of computerized music synthesizers. 

An upcoming project is a program for fund managers creating an artificially intelligent financial analyst that outperforms humans. "This technology is going to be huge," he says. 

FORBES recently met with Kurzweil in his small Waltham, Mass. office, where the walls are decorated with newspaper clips about the performances of his father, Fredric, a concert pianist, and a picture drawn by an AI-powered computer. 

Forbes: Is your new book science or science fiction? 

If anything, my views are conservative. The predictions are based on technologies you can touch and feel today. I don't think anyone who studies this stuff carefully would say these things are never going to happen. 

Your book gets pretty weird: People scan their brains into a computer and create self-replicas. 

By 2040 it will be routine. If you build a computer based on the design of the human brain and instantiate information from a human being onto that computer, it will emerge in the machine and claim to be that person. The machine will say, "I grew up in Brooklyn, I went to MIT, then I walked into a scanner and woke up here in the machine." 

How are you going to reproduce a human brain? 

We can just copy it, bit by bit, connection by connection, neuron by neuron, synapse by synapse.It's right there in front of us.Human neurons are not so vastly complicated that we can't understand them or replicate them. We've already replicated the input-output characteristics of clusters of hundreds of neurons. The question is: What is the feasibility of scaling up from hundreds of neurons to billions of neurons? And that's not a big deal. 

You say reinstantiated humans will have bodies created with nanotechnology, which will let us build devices--even fake human organs--at the atomic level? 

Things like nanotubes are not actually fully working yet. But it's already well under way in laboratories. Nanotechnology is a $5 billion industry. All I'm doing is looking at trends to see where we are likely to be in terms of computational capability and the sophistication of software and the dexterity of certain physical technologies, like nanotechnology. 

Would you reinstantiate yourself? 

Probably. But I may end up jealous of the new Ray in that he shares my history, my desires and my longings, but will be in a far better position than old Ray to fulfill them. 

These are going to be very smart entities--much smarter than humans. And that's really where power lies. Ultimately these entities will have political power. They will have all the political power. 

This is good news? 

Some people who've read the book have come away feeling depressed. They get the idea that human beings are ending, that civilization is ending. Actually we will continue, but in a much more profound way. The human race is going to evolve. We are going to become smarter by merging with our machines. 

A lot of folks will say, stop the world, I want to get off. 

It's unstoppable.It's part of the fundamental laws of the universe. This is not an alien invasion. It's emerging from within our civilization. We're already pretty intimate with our computers. As we move forward, the nexus between machines and humans will become even more intimate. 

Document fb00000020010917dubu001gw


More Like This

 Article 114 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

THE CELL OF A NEW MACHINE 

BY ELLEN LICKING 
200 words 
7 December 1998
Business Week 
61 
Number 3607 
English
(c) 1998 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

LIVING CELLS ARE FANTASTICALLY EFFICIENT FACTORIES, constantly procuring chemicals from their environment and assembling them into complex proteins. They even contain minuscule molecular pumps and motors to transport materials in, out, and around the cell. Scientists would like to intervene in these processes and direct them toward delicate and specific engineering goals--such as delivering toxins to tumor cells or monitoring microbial threats to crops. 

Now, researchers are taking the first small steps toward such interventions. Carlo D. Montemagno, an assis- tant professor of biological engineering at Cornell University, says he has modified the surface of a cellular pump that measures just 40 atoms across. This modification allows him to attach artificial components for controlling it. Addressing the Foresight Conference on Molecular Nanotechnology in Santa Clara, Calif., in mid-November, he described a blueprint for a hybrid cellular machine that engineers can turn on and off as they please. Such a device could be programmed to target renegade cancer cells, glom on to them, and shoot them up with chemicals that would be too toxic to release into the general bloodstream. 

Photograph: PRIMED: The pump that Montemagno manipulates 


Document bw00000020010915duc70041s


More Like This

 Article 115 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

HOW ULTRASOUND SCOPES OUT THE MATERIAL WORLD 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
216 words 
18 January 1999
Business Week 
97 
Number 3612 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

SINCE IBM SCIENTISTS INVENTED THE SCANNING TUNNELING MICROSCOPE (STM) in 1981, the concept has spawned an ever larger family of instruments that can create images of the atomic structures of materials. Coming next: the ultrasonic force microscope, or UFM. 

The STM and its descendants work like supersharp phonographic needles--they trace the contours of individual atoms on a material's surface. But what has eluded scientists are images of the subsurface interfaces between two different materials. How their atomic lattices match up is crucial to the performance of semiconductors, ceramics, and polymer alloys. 

Enter UFM. Using its pointy tip to transmit ultrasonic waves, the device works as a sort of metal detector to probe materials. In the December issue of Materials World, published by the Institute of Materials in London, Oleg V. Kolosov reports that a UFM has mapped the germanium atoms in silicon-germanium semiconductors and spotted defects in ceramic compounds--with resolutions down to 4 nanometers (a human hair is 20,000 times thicker). Kolosov helped invent UFM technology while in Japan in 1993 and 1994. Now at England's Oxford University, he still collaborates with Japanese scientists and leads a local team that's uncovering new uses for UFM. 

Document bw00000020010825dv1i000hg


More Like This

 Article 116 *******************    



Science & Technology: AUTOMATION 

THE SHAPE OF ROBOTS TO COME? A software developer envisions self-directing cubes 

By Otis Port in New York, with Heidi Dawley in London 
1,113 words 
25 January 1999
Business Week 
98 
Number 3613 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Call him the Pablo Picasso of robotics. Joseph Michael's world, after all, is cubist. By patching together robotic cubes of different sizes, the founder of Robodyne Cybernetics Ltd. in London envisions new families of smart machines for a host of jobs--from fighting fires and inspecting the inside of pipes in chemical plants to building structures in space or products in factories. That includes cloning themselves, manufacturing new generations that would become ever cheaper and smaller--tiny enough, ultimately, to battle disease inside the human body. 

Mixing sizes of cubes can yield endless variations. Some resemble insects, others look like forklifts. And the clusters can morph when the cubes slide over and around one another, using grooves on their surfaces. Each robot cube would get its own microchip brain, a communications system for talking to the other cubes in a cluster, and a motor. Most would have ports for attaching mechanical fingers, tools, or wheels. 

Michael calls the concept ``fractal shape-changing robotics.'' He has been honing it since high school, after his family emigrated to Britain from India 27 years ago. He got serious about the idea after graduating from the University of Hull in 1984 and filed for his first patent in 1994. Since then, he has plowed every spare penny into his robots--close to $200,000 in total. 

An independent software engineer, Michael says he makes ``a very good middle-class living'' writing programs. But you would hardly know it from the two houses in North London where he lives with his parents and a brother. Machine tools, motors, and other robot parts litter seven rooms and a basement workshop, along with two dozen prototype cubes ranging in size from 10 inches per edge down to 5 inches. TEXANS INTERESTED. Marketing, though, has gotten short shrift. So while Michael has won prizes at six industrial competitions since 1995--most recently at last May's Invention/New Products Exposition show in Pittsburgh--his work is not well known. Robot experts who have toured Robodyne's Web site (www.robodyne.com) point out that similar, so-called reconfigurable robots capable of repairing themselves, have become a hot topic, and some say Michael brings little new to the party. But Jing Xiao, director of the National Science Foundation's robotics program, says she is ``quite impressed'' by the versatility of Michael's fractal approach. 

The market may soon resolve the disagreement. NanoTechnology Development Corp. (NTDC), a Houston startup, has purchased the first fractal-robot license. Its initial goal is a bridge-building system for use in the wake of natural disasters. A bunch of big cubes would be trucked to a collapsed bridge. The robots would ``crawl'' across the river or the caved-in section of the bridge or a landslide (table), then lock together to form a rigid structure. 

Bridge-building is just for starters, though, says NTDC President Michael S. Forbes. The ultimate payoff will come when the robots are outfitted with tools and installed in factories to make smaller copies of themselves. A factory with 1-cm workers, say, would crank out 1-mm clones until there were enough of them to create a duplicate, but smaller, factory for making 0.1-mm robots. The final result would be 1-micron cubes, just a tiny fraction of the width of a human hair. 

Clusters of such robots could be programmed to navigate blood vessels and excise cancer cells, says Michael D. McDonald, NTDC's chief technology officer and head of advanced research at Access Multimedia Technology. Cheap robot factories the size of a grain of sand would also serve up a cornucopia of goods. ``Anything you want, you'll be able to replicate'' at home, he adds. 

McDonald is no wet-behind-the-ears idealist. He was Control Data Corp.'s man in charge of the supercomputers at NASA's Houston facility in the late 1960s when NASA was racing to fulfill President John F. Kennedy's pledge to put a man on the moon. He was lured out of retirement by the promise of nanotechnology--building almost anything by manipulating individual atoms. 

A key champion of nanotech is K. Eric Drexler, chairman of the Foresight Institute in Palo Alto, Calif. He envisions an atomic-scale ``assembler'' even smaller than Michael's 1-micron cubes. While such a robot is still in the future, Michael says his scheme can be launched today, since many applications don't need the ultimate 1-micron cubes. INVESTORS SOUGHT. For example, furniture, appliances, and even cars might be designed faster with the help of fractal 1-mm cubes. When managers need to see a physical model, the computer-aided design system could send the contours to a car-size cluster of cubes, which would shift to reproduce the design. 

But such dreams hinge on shaping NTDC into a moneymaker. So far, it has not gotten past square one. The company needs to raise $300,000 to fund its first cube factory. NTDC made a stock offering on the Internet last summer--up to 200,000 shares at $5 each. A mere $5,000 has been collected, admits Forbes. Partly that's because the shares are registered for sale only in New York State. Forbes, who has sunk almost $100,000 of his own money into the project, expects approval soon to expand the online offering to other states. 

If NTDC can't raise the funds, Michael says he will take his vision to Japan. If that fails, he vows to scrape together $75,000 to construct a bridge-building prototype himself. Despite the setbacks, Michael still sees a cubist future. 

A BRIDGE THAT ENGINEERS ITSELF 

Smart cubes could rearrange themselves in endless configurations to perform a multitude of jobs, including construction 

1. A group of cube robots approaches an obstacle, such as a landslide, chasm, or river. Cubes in top layer bolt themselves together to form a rigid platform. 

2. After the top-layer platform slides over the obstacle, the cubes on the end lower and detach themselves to form a bridge foundation on the left side. 

3. More cubes climb up and hook onto the right end of the top layer. This top layer pushes ahead across the obstacle, to shift more cubes to the left. 

4. The process can continue until all cubes have crossed over. Or the cubes can create a temporary or permanent bridge in the wake of a natural disaster. 

Photograph: MICHAEL: Design prizes, but little else GRAHM TROTT 


Document bw00000020010825dv1p000qv


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 117 *******************    



Biotechnology 

Magic Bullets The Breakthroughs, the Business and the People of Biotechnology. 

BY Cynthia Robbins-Roth 
1,205 words 
31 May 1999
Forbes ASAP 
042 
English
(c) 1999 Forbes Inc.

We've all seen cranky financial stories about how biotech stocks are in the tank (along with all other small-cap stocks), concerns over the insurance industry's improper use of our genetic blueprints, why Ben & Jerry's won't buy milk from cows treated with genetically engineered growth hormone, and worries over genetically modified crops. 

Obviously, biotech is not for the faint of heart. It takes an average of $350 million and about a decade for a new drug to move from discovery to the market--with a failure rate of about 99%. The workforce is expensive and temperamental. And investors alternate between being wildly overenthusiastic and suicidal. 

So why would anybody in their right mind be associated with this industry, much less invest in it? Because nobody disputes the incredible impact biotech is having on medicine. In the past decade, most of the truly innovative drugs, the ones aimed at previously untreatable diseases, have come from biotechnology. Genetic science has enabled us to understand diseases at the molecular level and design drugs to treat them. Most execs at big pharmaceutical companies freely admit that they depend on alliances with biotech companies to fill their product pipelines and keep their earnings growth healthy (see "The Millennium Minuet," page 80). 

All signs point to an increasing role for biotech in important new markets as well, including agriculture, industrial chemicals, and nanotechnology. Biotech also is beginning to integrate with high tech. In fact, biotech, with its need for vast databases, collaborative research, and precision instruments, will likely become the next big market for the electronics industry. So, after 15 years of anticipation, biotechnology finally appears to be on the cusp of greatness. 

To better understand how and why, a little history lesson is in order. Biotechnology began millennia ago when nomadic tribespeople realized they could ferment grains and make alcohol. This not only led to many amusing evenings around the campfire but convinced these nomads to settle down, plant fields of grain (more beer!), and create civilization. Settling down also enabled these ex-nomads to cross- pollinate their crops to create new hybrid strains: genetic engineering. 

Roll forward to 1976 when Bob Swanson, a venture capitalist at Kleiner Perkins, teamed up with Dr. Herb Boyer, a biochemist, genetic engineer, and a professor at the University of California at San Francisco, to found the South San Francisco company Genentech. Historians have focused on the scientific revolution signaled by this event, but, in fact, Genentech and its first-generation biotech brethren--Amgen, Cetus, Chiron, Biogen, Genetics Institute, and Genzyme--were doing something far more exciting than just science. Those pioneers invented a new industry nobody believed was possible. They did so through a wealth of novel, innovative financing vehicles to fuel the 10-year product development timelines and by raiding from academia a group of people never before involved in business: biologists. And they did this despite everyone in the pharmaceutical industry telling them it couldn't be done. 

To put this in perspective, you need to realize that before the 1970s, the last pharmaceutical company to be created was Palo Alto's Syntex (now part of Roche Holdings of Switzerland). Dr. Alejandro Zaffaroni (see "Biotechnology All-Stars," page 90) and his colleagues pulled the company kicking and screaming into existence in the 1950s. All the other major pharmaceutical players had been around since the 19th century, initially developing pharmaceuticals based on chemical dyes and the by-products of industrial chemical reactions. Not surprisingly, then, in the 1970s, conventional wisdom said it was impossible to start a new pharmaceutical company. 

But times had changed. The science that fired the imaginations of Swanson and his fellow biotech entrepreneurs was the invention of "gene- splicing" in the 1970s by Boyer and Stanford University genetics professor Dr. Stanley N. Cohen. With this technique, the pieces of genetic material telling a cell how to make a protein could be "cut and pasted" from one organism into another. The resulting "genetically engineered" organism would then be able to make that protein. 

Why would you want to do this, much less build an entire industry around it? Because medical science was learning a lot about the proteins vital to good health such as insulin, receptors that control blood pressure and other cardiovascular functions, and hormones that control growth and reproduction. 

The big problem was that many of these important proteins were made in such minuscule amounts by the body that no one could figure out how to make enough in the lab to study their functions, much less treat a significant number of patients. For the first time, genetic engineering offered a way to manufacture these naturally occurring proteins in huge batches. Researchers merely had to insert the human gene encoding the protein into rapidly growing bacteria or mammalian cell lines that could live and grow in huge vats--much the way antibiotics were already being manufactured. 

It was a true revolution. Suddenly you could set up cell factories to make rare and precious biological products. Best of all, the products also had the ability to save lives. 

In Cambridge, Massachusetts, a company called Genzyme bioengineered a drug called Cerezyme that is used to treat a debilitating genetic disease called Gaucher's (see "Time to Live," page 100). The company is also developing a related enzyme-based drug that will be used to treat Hurler's Syndrome, a rare, fatal genetic disease that strikes only children. And Genentech's Activase was the first innovative approach to treat the true cause of many heart attacks--blood clots. 

Still, altruism isn't enough, especially when so many biotech companies have failed--and so much more money can be made in Internet stocks. These days biotech capital is in short supply (see "Money Walks," page 77). Many of the current financing woes are the result of larger market forces that have little to do with the fundamentals of the companies. All small-cap companies--regardless of industry--are suffering from the inability of large funds to invest in companies with market capitalization of less than $1 billion. When you realize that all but 10 of the biotech stocks are below this mark, the problem becomes clear--the funds literally can't invest in small-cap biotech businesses. 

But the great thing about markets is that they always change. New, smaller funds headed by folks with biotech industry knowledge are already forming. Moreover, thanks to the completion of the decade-long approval cycle, the multitude of new biotech projects begun in the early '90s are poised to power into the pharmaceutical marketplace and into other industries. This impending biotech explosion will become the basis for a sustained growth sector for investors and employees, and a welcome boon to the beneficiaries of those technologies. 

Which is why biotech's golden age is not behind us but just ahead. 

Cynthia Robbins-Roth, a.k.a. biogoddess, is ASAP's guest editor for this issue. She has spent the past 17 years in the biotech arena, first as a research scientist at Genentech and later as the head of BioVenture Consultants (www.bioventureconsultants.com). 

Document fb00000020010827dv5v000qc


More Like This

 Article 118 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

THE CLEANEST CARS OF ALL GET CLOSER 

By Evelyn L. Wright EDITED BY NEIL GROSS 
178 words 
19 July 1999
Business Week 
76 
Number 3638 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

HYDROGEN-BURNING CARS WOULD BE THE ULTIMATE IN CLEAN VEHICLES, with tailpipes that emit nothing but water. So far, though, the dream cars have barely gotten rolling. One of the biggest roadblocks, says John Stringer, a manager of materials research at the Electric Power Research Institute, is that liquid hydrogen--unlike gaso- line--must be stored under pressure at low temperatures. 

Now, physicist Jianyi Lin and a team at the National University of Singapore are enlisting the help of tiny graphite cylinders, just a few dozen atoms in diameter, known as carbon nanotubes. When laced with lithium and potassium, each tube can attract and hold a surprisingly large number of hydrogen atoms--at normal pressure. And the tubes can discharge and reabsorb the gas many times without a decrease in absorptive power, according to Lin's article in the July 2 issue of Science. While challenges remain, ``this could be the big jump we've been waiting for,'' says Stringer. 

Document bw00000020010825dv7j002q2


More Like This

 Article 119 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

THESE CHIPS ARE WIRED FROM WITHIN 

By Otis Port EDITED BY CATHERINE ARNST 
213 words 
26 July 1999
Business Week 
71 
Number 3639 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

TRANSISTORS GET TINIER AND TINIER, YET CHIPS GROW EVER LARGER. What gives? The chief culprit is wiring. Connecting all those switches takes a maze of wires, and their complexity is growing faster than transistors are shrinking. 

Researchers at Hewlett-Packard Laboratories and the University of California at Los Angeles are cooking up a way for the chips to wire themselves. They envision chips that chemically assemble themselves from conductive molecules and tiny carbon-nanotube wires. ``On chips today, the wires are not routed the way nature would like--but chemistry could take care of that,'' says HP researcher Philip J. Kuekes. 

In the July 16 issue of Science, the team uncorks its first success: a so-called logic gate (pictured) that self-assembled from special molecules designed by J. Fraser Stoddart, a UCLA chemist. To simplify lab experiments, the molecules are sandwiched between big metal electrodes (the dots on the chip). While the prototype gate has millions of molecules, Kuekes says future versions will need no more than a dozen. The next goal, he says, is self-assembled nanowires. The result could be chips 1,000 times more powerful than today's--and microprocessors smaller than pinheads. 

Document bw00000020010825dv7q002y7


More Like This

 Article 120 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

EDITED BY CATHERINE ARNST 
240 words 
26 July 1999
Business Week 
71 
Number 3639 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- For almost 15 years, scientists have been scorching graphite in the laboratory to create pure soccer-ball-shaped carbon molecules called ``fullerenes.'' But the largest versions of these supertough structures, up to 240 atoms, have never been observed in nature--until now. University of Hawaii organic geochemist Luann Becker and two colleagues at NASA discovered giant fullerenes in a meteorite, thought to be 4.6 billion years old, that landed in Mexico 30 years ago. The discovery, reported in the July 15 issue of Nature, lends credence to the view that meteors may have first transported carbon--an essential element of life--to earth. In theory, these same hollow fullerene spheres could have ferried through space some of the volatile gases that make earth amenable to life. -- Don't put metal in the microwave, right? It's a simple household rule. But by breaking it, scientists at the University of Pennsylvania are crafting materials that display excellent mechanical properties. 

The team uses microwaves to heat and fuse metal powders such as iron, steel, and copper into gears, rings, and tubes that are denser and more homogeneous than forms fashioned through normal heating processes. Such parts may soon be used in cars. But don't try this at home. Solid metals--as opposed to metal powders--do indeed cause problems in a microwave, because they reflect the microwave radiation rather than absorb it. 

Document bw00000020010825dv7q002y9


More Like This

 Article 121 *******************    



Editor's Memo 

A LOOK AT THINGS TO COME 

Stephen B. Shepard, Editor-in-chief 
476 words 
30 August 1999
Business Week 
12 
Number 3644 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

We began work on ``21 Ideas for the 21st Century'' by asking a dozen or so BUSINESS WEEK writers and editors to think of ways we might try to catch the spirit of the new millennium without making a lot of dubious predictions. Trying to predict the future has always been a risky business, and it's even tougher in the hyperspeed Age of the Internet. 

We decided a more productive approach might be to present some of today's most far-reaching ideas--along with the people behind them. We'll wager that some of these ideas and thinkers will have a powerful impact on whatever trends do emerge in coming decades. 

Included here are such thinkers as Leon Botstein, the president of Bard College, who advocates doing away with high school. (You might want to think twice before sharing that idea with teenagers in your family.) You will also meet James C. Ellenbogen of Mitre Corp. He is a leading practitioner of the craft of nanotechnology, the fabrication of structures far smaller than the individual magnetic grains on your computer's hard drive. Some envision a ``nanobox'' that could assemble individual atoms into an upgraded cell phone or any other gadget you might need. 

We also spent a day with John Gruetzner, a 38-year-old executive living a nomadic existence that could become far more common in the next century. A photo essay gives you a taste of Gruetzner's ragged, rugged life on the road. 

We look at the globalization, compression, and fragmentation of time itself. It was only in this century that the current time zones gained currency, giving some order to time in a slowly shrinking world. In the next century, those time zones will increasingly become a quaint reminder of what it was like before many of us began living our lives in many time zones at once. And we explore the amazing persistence of religion, in which some forms of worship have remained largely unchanged for millenniums. 

For an added fillip, we asked science-fiction authority Eric Rabkin, of the University of Michigan, to comb classic works of science fiction to uncover imaginative predictions that just might come true. 

These are just a few of the ideas and people inside this issue. We hope you will find them provocative, inspiring, and, just as important, a pleasure to read. 

My thanks to the team of thinkers who led this project: Chief Economist William Wolman, Senior Editor Paul Raeburn, Associate Economics Editor Peter Coy, and Senior Writer Neil Gross. The package was designed by Senior Art Director Francesca Messina and freelancer Mimi Park, working with Photo Editor Kathleen Moore. Many other writers and reporters brought their ideas, wisdom, and visual grace to this stimulating issue. 

Document bw00000020010825dv8u003y3


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 122 *******************    



21 Ideas for the 21st Century -- Nanotech

4: Molecular Machines Aren't Fantasy. Just Ask the Pentagon In the 2020s, you may be able to buy a ``recipe'' for a PC over the net, insert plastic and conductive molecules into your ``nanobox,'' and have it spit out a computer 

By OTIS PORT 
1,038 words 
30 August 1999
Business Week 
90 
Number 3644 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Matter will become software. That's not a misprint: Matter will become software. As a result, we'll be able to use the Internet to download not just software but hardware, too. So predicts James C. Ellenbogen, the nanotechnology honcho at Mitre Corp., a Pentagon-funded research center in McLean, Va. 

Nanotechnology is the craft of constructing things smaller than a few hundred nanometers, or billionths of a meter. That's the span of a few scores of atoms strung together. Move automated assembly down to such scales, and the implications for manufacturing are pretty clear: Whole sectors of production could get clobbered. It could start with semiconductors in the 2010s, then spread to other small products, like cellular phones. 

Ellenbogen makes a compelling case for his matter-as-software scenario. ``Think about what happens when you download software today,'' he explains. ``You're rearranging the material structure on your disk'' by changing the magnetic properties of clumps of molecules. If the guts of computers were no larger than those clumps, you could rearrange molecules on the disk to build chips. Researchers are already busy developing techniques to make pinhead-size computers, ``and the bits and pieces of these nanocomputers are far smaller than the physical structures we now manipulate to hold information on disk drives,'' Ellenbogen says. ``So someday soon, we could download hardware from the Net just like we download software today.'' 

New disk drives will be needed to physically reproduce some hardware downloads. One concept is to make a read/write head from a cluster of ultrasharp points to nudge atoms and molecules this way or that. Two groups--headed by Calvin F. Quate at Stanford University and Noel C. MacDonald at Cornell University--are working on that, building on a decade of experiments using the tips of scanning-tunneling microscopes and related gear to move atoms around. The first such feat came in 1990, when Donald M. Eigler, a physicist at IBM's Almaden Research Center in San Jose, Calif., wrote ``IBM'' on a nickel plate with 35 xenon atoms. 

``Once we have the technology to build computers no bigger than grains of salt,'' Ellenbogen says, ``we're in a fundamentally new ball game.'' Computers that tiny will be dirt cheap, so they'll be everywhere. A computer in lingerie will tell the washing machine what the water temperature should be. Ballpoint pens will blink a warning when their ink gets low. Your shoes will let your car know you're approaching, so it can adjust the seat and mirrors and unlock the door. COPY SHOP. But the grand slam in the matter-is-software ballpark will be the nanobox. This is a sort of futuristic copy machine that combines nanotech fabrication with today's so-called desktop-manufacturing methods, used mainly to knock out quick prototypes of new products. If you want a new cell phone, you'll purchase a recipe on the Net. It will tell you to insert a sheet of plastic and squirt electrically conductive molecules into the ``toner'' cartridge. The nanobox will pass the plastic back and forth, laying down patterns of molecules, then electrically direct them to assemble themselves into circuits and an antenna. Next, using different ``toners,'' the nanobox will add a keypad, speaker, and microphone and finally build up a housing. 

Don't expect such a gadget until around 2020. The first experiments to download nanoscale computer circuits won't happen much before 2005. A decade after that, nanofab systems could be ``writing matter''--initially producing nanochips. 

Concrete progress toward that goal came in July from the branch of nanotech called molecular electronics. A team from the University of California at Los Angeles and Hewlett-Packard Laboratories unveiled a so-called logic gate made by molecular self-assembly. Next, the team will shrink the wires on chips, aiming to produce chips ``in the region of 100 nanometers on a side,'' says Philip J. Kuekes, a researcher at HP Labs. ``What makes chipmaking so expensive now,'' he adds, ``is the extreme mechanical precision required. But with chemistry, we can turn out chips like Kodak does film--in long rolls, and you'll just cut out little squares.'' 

Such notions have grabbed Washington's attention. Seven months ago, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency launched a Molecular Electronics Program. And Congress seems eager to spend a lot more on nanotech research. One plan would double the current budget of $232 million over the next three years. The White House may go along, because it has already tagged nanotech as one of 11 critical research areas. 

Back at Mitre, the latest feat of Ellenbogen's crew, unveiled in mid-August, is a design for a minuscule robot to help assemble nanofabrication systems. Currently, it measures almost five millimeters along one side, or one-sixth of an inch. But suppose such robots were to use nanofab techniques to produce progressively smaller versions of themselves. Eventually, they might end up smaller than specks of dust. 

Robots that tiny could fulfill K. Eric Drexler's vision of nanobots capable of manipulating individual atoms. In his trailblazing 1986 book, Engines of Creation, the founder of the Foresight Institute in Palo Alto, Calif., painted a riveting picture of nanotech's potential. Drexler essentially launched the nanotech era and inspired such fancies as armies of invisible nanobots roaming carpets and shelves, dismantling dust into atoms that get reconstituted as napkins, soap, or anything else--including nanocomputers. 

Building computers atom by atom remains a distant dream, though, and Ellenbogen wants quick results. ``So I'm betting on molecular electronics for the near term,'' he says. That looks like a good nanogamble. 

Photograph: Molecular-scale robots will need molecular-scale muscles. K. Eric Drexler's design for a ``fine-motion controller'' (above) would enable a nanorobot arm to assemble parts atom by atom or to guide chemical reactions DR. ERIC DREXLER, INSTITUTE FOR MOLECULAR MANUFACTURING


Document bw00000020010825dv8u003z3


More Like This

 Article 123 *******************    



Cover Story: 21 Ideas for the 21st Century -- Introduction 

We Are Offering 21 Doors to the Future and Invite You to Explore 

By Peter Coy and Neil Gross 
1,186 words 
30 August 1999
Business Week 
81 
Number 3644 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

When Neil Armstrong walked on the moon in 1969, Mars seemed to be just a space shot away. But forecasters who saw the moon as a springboard for colonies on the Red Planet and voyages to the stars were mistaken--even moon walks are off the agenda. In fact, for the half of the world born after the last Apollo mission, walking on the moon belongs to history, along with Roald Amundsen's trek to the South Pole in 1911. 

Like the Space Age enthusiasts of 30 years ago, forecasters who extrapolate from today inevitably get tomorrow wrong. In 1929, just before the Great Depression, Yale University economist Irving Fisher said stock prices had reached ``what looks like a permanently high plateau.'' In 1973, economists lined up at the gas pump were sure that oil prices were headed for $100 a barrel by 1980. The figure today is $21. 

So on the eve of the millennium, when everyone is drawing lines on graphs to see where the world is headed, BUSINESS WEEK cut loose and went nonlinear. In this summer special report, you won't find any tables predicting Internet usage in 2020, mortality rates in 2030, or per capita income in 2040. 

Instead, we have compiled ``21 Ideas for the 21st Century.'' It's a set of propositions, concepts, and vignettes that are in no particular rank. And although we use the language of prediction, the real intent is simply to put a lot of ideas on the table. From meditations on empty forests and extremophiles to the outlook for urban sprawl and the immortality of the mind, we opened our sights extra wide. The headlines say it: ``The earth will don an electronic skin'' (page 132). ``Creatures on the fringe hold secrets of life'' (page 114). 

The notion underpinning this special report--let's call it the 22nd idea--is that by pitting multiple scenarios of the future against one another and leaving many different doors open, you can prepare yourself for a future that is inherently unpredictable. Brainstorming pays off. And the more possibilities you can entertain, the less likely you are to be blindsided. 

Some of the possibilities are entertaining indeed. Try this one on for size: A world in which you could download from the Internet the ``recipe'' for a cell phone, to be assembled at home in an oven-size device called a nanobox. Such boxes would radically reshape the manufacturing sector of the economy. That's one of the 21 ideas in this package (page 90). 

How about computers that utilize bizarre quantum effects to solve problems with the equivalent of a roll of the dice (page 160)? Or this: Should you drum math and science into your kid's resisting brain when, in a mere 20 years, she will be fitted with embedded chips that make her far smarter than Stephen Hawking, or be able to pop a pill to achieve the same effect? (gatefold after page 116). 

These 21 ideas are not all high-percentage shots. There may never be 2,000 nations, as we speculate (page 86). High schools may not wither away after all. Giant utilities may remain the energy suppliers of choice (page 84). And after experimenting with management by teams (page 88), leaderless corporations may decide that what they really want are iron-fisted CEOs. 

Even our tone--generally upbeat--could be off. BT Laboratories Futurologist Ian Pearson, usually a technology cheerleader, has a comical rendition of high technology run amok: It's a world in which people on telephones try to make customer representatives angry because it's the only way to tell that they're people and not computers. ``The fridge has time locks on the door and a video camera watching what you take out,'' he writes on the British telephone company's Web site. ``It won't allow the microwave to cook it because it contains too many calories. Kitchen rage is becoming a major social problem.'' 

O.K., let's say you have a thousand disparate visions of the future jangling in your mind--for your family, your career, the company you run. The temptation is to fix on one plausible scenario and run with it. Don't. Smart managers acknowledge their own myopia. They pursue several paths at once, knowing that some won't pay off. They fund research projects aimed at exploiting mutually exclusive visions of the future. They're willing to be wrong frequently, and quit when they're behind. 

The more unsettled things are and the faster they change, the more valuable it is to keep multiple options alive. ``Volatility is not your enemy,'' says John H. Holland, computer scientist and thinker at the University of Michigan and the Santa Fe Institute. English essayist Francis Bacon figured this out nearly 400 years ago. ``If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts,'' he wrote. ``But if he will be content to begin with doubts he shall end in certainties.'' 

For investors, too, scenario planning can be illuminating. The Internet may be the single dominant theme in stock investing today. But tomorrow's hottest trends could be in the biosciences, nanotechnology, or--who knows?--industrial enzymes derived from life on Mars (page 114). 

Building scenarios and managing multiplicity can be a tough exercise. People crave certainty and hate revisiting decisions. That's why companies so often throw good money after bad, and fire people who abandon a project--even when giving up is the right thing to do. But in the 21st century, we'll all have to emulate a football player returning a kickoff. He revisits decisions second by second, cutting back and forth across the field in search of daylight, unembarrassed that he had to reverse field when circumstances changed. 

The eve of the year 2000 is a good time to think about reversing field. True, you could argue that the new century and millennium really don't begin until 2001. But the calendar we live by is a social artifact anyway. A thousand years ago, most of the world cared nothing for the Western calendar. And one thousand years from now, if most people aren't even living on this planet, the notion of an earth year will seem antique. 

We're not looking 1,000 years ahead. But we are daring to look 100 years ahead, peering into a future that appears fuzzy and flickering, like the first shots of Neil Armstrong on the moon. Our rationale: If you envision multiple versions of the future and think through their implications, you will be better prepared for whatever ends up happening. In effect, you won't be seeing the future for the first time. You'll be remembering it. The alternative won't cut it: Those who cannot remember the future are condemned to be taken by surprise. 

(See related 21 IDEAS FOR THE 21st CENTURY articles --- BusinessWeek August 30, 1999.) 

Document bw00000020010825dv8u0041b


More Like This

 Article 124 *******************    



Talking Technology 

MAN AND MACHINE BECOME ONE Inventor Raymond Kurzweil talks nanobots

1,356 words 
6 September 1999
Business Week 
26D 
Number 3645 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Raymond C. Kurzweil graduated in 1970 from Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a dual major--computer science and literature--and has since led dual careers as a software entrepreneur and an author. He is the founder and chairman of Kurzweil Technologies in Wellesley Hills, Mass., and six other companies that have pioneered applications of artificial intelligence in medicine, speech recognition, and reading machines for the blind. His books include The Age of Intelligent Machines, published in 1990, and The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence, published this year. Kurzweil spoke with BUSINESS WEEK Senior Writer Otis Port about nanotechnology, which may enable engineers to construct microscopic computers and robots, or nanobots, atom by atom. These machines could dramatically affect the future of human intelligence. 

Q: Do you have any doubts that a superior intelligence will emerge in the next few decades? 

A: No. It's inevitable. For example, nanotubes would allow computing at the molecular level. A one-inch cube of nanotube circuitry would be about a billion times more powerful than the human brain, in terms of computing capacity. That raw computing capacity is a necessary but not sufficient condition to achieve human-level intelligence in a machine. We also need the organization and the software to organize those resources. There are a number of scenarios for achieving that. The most compelling is reverse-engineering the human brain. We're already well down that path, with techniques like MRI. But we'll do better because the speed and resolution--the bandwidth--with which we can scan the brain are also accelerating exponentially. 

One means of scanning the brain would be to send small scanners in the form of nanobots into the blood stream. Millions of them would go through every capillary of the brain. We already have electronic means for scanning neurons and neurotransmitter concentrations that are nearby, and within 30 years, we'll have these little nanobots that can communicate with each other wirelessly. They would create an enormous database with every neuron, every synaptic connection, every neurotransmitter concentration--a precise map of the human brain. So we'll have the templates for human intelligence. 

Once we can embody human thought processes in a nonbiological medium, it will necessarily soar past human intelligence for several reasons. First, machines can share their knowledge electronically. With humans, you spend years teaching language to each child. [But] once any one machine has mastered something, it can share that knowledge instantly with millions of other machines over the global wireless Web, which we'll have by then. So a machine can become expert at any number of disciplines. 

Secondly, machines are far faster, and machine memories can be far larger and much more accurate. However, machines do not yet have the depth of pattern recognition or the subtlety of human intelligence. They can't deal with emotions and humor and other subtle qualities of human intelligence. Once their complexity matches that of humans and they are able to master the skills at which humans now excel, and those abilities are combined with the ways in which machines are already superior--that will be a very formidable combination. It'll get to the point where the next generation of technology can only be designed by the machines themselves. 

Finally, while the complexity of the bioLogical computational circuitry in humans is essentially fixed, the density of machine circuitry will grow exponentially. By 2030, a $1,000 computer system will have the power of 1,000 human brains; by 2050, a billion human brains. 

Q: Won't we end up feeling like pets? 

A: Those same nanobots that can scan the human brain will also provide a type of neural implant to extend human intelligence--expand your memory and improve your pattern-recognition capabilities. Ultimately, they will augment human intelligence quite profoundlY as we go through the 21st century. 

With microscopic nanobots, we'll be able to send millions or billions [of them] into your brain. They would take up key positions inside our brains and detect what's going on in our brains. They would be communicating with each other via a wireless local-area network, which would be linked to the wireless Web and intelligent machines, and they could cause particular neurons to fire or suppress them. 

This will enable us to boost human intelligence dramatically. Ultimately, the majority of thinking will be done in the nonbiological parts of our brains. 

Q: If nanobots are controlling the brain, how will we know they're not fooling us with false signals? 

A: Well, actually, another thing we could do would be virtual reality. If we had nanobots take up positions by every nerve fiber that comes from all of our five senses, they could either do nothing, in which case you'd perceive the world normally--or they could shut off the nerve impulses coming from our real senses and replace them with simulated impulses representing what you would perceive if you were in the virtual environment. 

Q: So we wouldn't be able to tell the difference at all between the real world and a simulated world? 

A: Right. It would be as if you were really in that virtual environment. If you decided to walk, the nanobots would intercept the signals to your real legs and send back all the sensory signals of walking--from the changing tactile pressure on your feet to the air moving across your hands as you swing your arms. It would be just as high-resolution and just as compelling as real reality. 

Eventually, anything you can do in real reality--business meetings, sex, sports--could be done in virtual reality. As the technology gets perfected, we'll be spending more time in virtual reality, because it'll be more compelling. Some will emulate real environments, so you'll visit the Web to go skiing in the Alps or walk on a beach in Tahiti. Others will be fantastic environments that don't exist, or couldn't exist, in the real world. 

Q: Let's go back to machines that design new machines. Doesn't that mean they could evolve utterly different ways of thinking? 

A: Sure. Once we have intelligent systems in a nonbiological medium, they're going to have their own ideas, their own agendas. They'll evolve off in completely unpredictable directions. Instead of being derived only from human civilization, new concepts will also be derived from their electronic civilization. But I see this as part of evolution--a continuation of the natural progression. 

Q: But couldn't it pose a threat to the human race? 

A: I don't see an invasion of alien machines coming over the horizon. They'll be emerging from within our human-machine civilization. We're already quite intimate with our technology. If all computers stopped today, essentially everything would grind to halt. That was not true 30 years ago. At that point, only a few scientists and government bureaucrats would have been frustrated by the delay in getting printouts from their punch-card machines. Today, we've become highly dependent on computer intelligence. It's already embedded in our decision-making software, much more than most people realize. That's going to accelerate. 

Next, we're going to be putting these machines into our bodies and our brains. So it's not going to be humans on one side and machines on the other. There's not going to be a clear distinction between humans and machines. 

Q: There won't be a clear distinction between us and them? 

A: No. But remember, this will be emerging gradually from within our own civilization. It's the next phase of our own evolution. It's only a threat if you believe things should always stay the same as they are today. 

That's not to say there aren't any dangers. An obvious one is uncontrolled growth of these nonbiological entities in your body--nonbiological cancer. 

Photograph: KURZWEIL LEADS A DUAL LIFE AS AN ENTREPRENEUR AND AUTHOR JAY REED 


Document bw00000020010825dv960049j


More Like This

 Article 125 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANOTUBES--FRESH FROM THE OVEN 

EDITED BY NEIL GROSS Irene M. Kunii 
150 words 
27 September 1999
Business Week 
139 
Number 3648 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

SUPERFAST SEMICONDUCTORS no larger than bacteria. Minuscule computers woven into your clothes. These wonders will be commonplace when science learns to manipulate tiny cylinders of carbon known as nanotubes. 

Such molecules are 100 times as durable as steel and can conduct electricity without releasing heat. But they're fiendishly difficult to wire onto substrates such as silicon--an essential step in making electronic devices. 

A possible solution comes from researcher Sumio Iijima and his colleagues at NEC Corp. and the Japan Science & Technology Corp. Iijima, who discovered carbon nano-tubes in 1991, bakes the cylinders directly onto silicon, titanium, and other metals in a vacuum at 900C. NEC hopes to test these hot-wired nanotubes as circuits in chips and as tiny cathodes that could be the basis of next-generation flat-panel displays. 

Document bw00000020010825dv9r000nq


More Like This

 Article 126 *******************    



Tools 

How one technology begat another; Important inventions of the past 130 years have built upon one another to form more and more innovations in our quickly developing world. 

351 words 
4 October 1999
Forbes ASAP 
23 
Volume ; Issue 
English
Copyright 1999 Forbes Inc. 

Every important technological invention of the last century has been itself at the nexus of numerous prior inventions, some great, some small. 

And it doesn't end there: These inventions become the grist for the next great creation. For example, in the most famous technological trajectory of the 20h century, the electromechanical switch led to the vacuum tube, which led to, among other things, the transistor, which begat the integrated circuit, which in turn evolved into the microprocessor, the most pervasive and influential product in the modern world. 

The proliferation of these technological inventions, and resulting links between them, uniquely characterizes this century, but it may not be true of the next. 

As the chart shows, the Era of Invention, roughly between 1870 and 1930, led to a brief era when the inventions were put to use, mostly for military purposes. Now we are in the Era of Improvement when core inventions have been refined to create, among other things, wonderful tools to entertain us, increase our productivity, and extend our lives. 

But even this Era of Improvement could slow. In the future, the harvest from core inventions may prove sparse, expensive, and hard to attain. Etching silicon wafers or devising fractional horsepower electric motors is going to look easy compared to storing information on the molecules in a crystal lattice or using a billion nanomachines to construct a human heart. 

But that doesn't mean the digital revolution is over. The real excitement these days lies not in the core technologies but how they are mixed and matched in systems. We not only won't run out of these new system inventions, but we may in fact be at the beginning of their golden age. Ahead lie dozens, even hundreds, of amazing new products born at the intersection of these systems. And that process will continue for generations-with any luck, until the next great technological explosion starts us off again. 

Document fb00000020011212dva400003


More Like This

 Article 127 *******************    



Ideas 

Eruptions from the Future; The next 50 years will raise enormous ethical questions. 

Alvin and Heidi Toffler 
1,450 words 
4 October 1999
Forbes ASAP 
185 
Volume 0; Issue 0 
English
Copyright 1999 Forbes Inc. 

A great deal of today's excitement over convergence is still what might be called "small think." As important as the convergence of computers, telephones, and television might be, or the convergence of, say, retailing and entertainment, or of agriculture and lasers, higher levels of convergence are potentially even more powerful. To reduce the concept to what's happening with computers and the media is to miss what could be the most profound consequences. 

Advances in computer power and communications are so dazzling today that they draw attention away from the tremendous advances under way in other fields of science and technology. The ability to regenerate human organs, once regarded as the wildest of science fantasies, is now within sight. Genetic manipulation of human evolution; the move toward nanotechnology; the reconceptualization of computing around DNA models; "artificial life"; the use of human brain waves to activate computers and vice versa; the possibility of storing information at the molecular level--all are making headlines. 

Of course, geneticists began using computers for number crunching and modeling many years ago. But it took nearly half a century for information technology and the biological revolution to cross the campus and start talking seriously to each other. Today the two fields are in a race toward a meeting of minds, suggesting that another tremendous burst of technology is about to occur. 

Following the digital revolution, according to Dr. Steven Metz, a researcher at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College, will come "dramatically improved robotics, 'brilliant' machines capable of complex decision making, and nanotechnology in which the ability to manipulate and manufacture individual molecules allows the construction of tiny but complex machines. Eventually this may fuse with a concomitant biological revolution...leading to manufactured entities that are part machine, part living organism." This scenario is supported by advances in supramolecular chemistry, in which molecules are attracted to one another and self-assemble into groups or clusters with higher-level functions. 

In turn, such capabilities suggest that instead of an industrial economy built around manufacturing, the economy of the future may eventually center once more on cultivation--the growing not merely of food but of all sorts of "things" such as machines, organs, buildings, and computers. If this turns out to be true, we will have moved from agriculture to industry and on to what might be termed "hyperagriculture." Other technological convergences may prove equally formidable. 

There is, however, another, longer-term, higher level of convergence--the "metaconvergence" of technology with culture, including religion, epistemology, and the rest of intellectual life. 

THE HIGHER CONVERGENCE Technology has been fundamental to wealth creation for more than 2 million years. Hunters and gatherers used a wide variety of primitive tools, including knives, axes, and awls. Agrarian societies, relying on peasant labor, used hoes and sickles, querns for grinding corn, and many other agricultural, harvesting, and processing tools. 

In The Medieval Machine, Jean Gimpel describes the many devices used during the Middle Ages for "crushing olives, fulling cloth, tanning leather, making paper." These simple machines met with others that converted flowing water into a supplemental source of usable energy. Important as they were, however, these developments did not revolutionize the existing economies of their societies. 

A dramatically new system for creating wealth did not arise until centuries later. Then, a slow metaconvergence of technology with religious and cultural changes brought strikingly new ideas, new beliefs, new ways of thinking, new values, and new lifestyles to Europe. 

Consider the three-century interval between Johannes Gutenberg and Thomas Newcomen. About 1440, Gutenberg, a printer from Mainz, Germany, invented, apparently independently, a method of printing with movable type that was already in use in China. This new technology arrived when Germany and other parts of the Continent were seething with resentment against the gross corruption, cronyism, payoffs, and hypocrisy of the Catholic Church. By 1520 movable-type presses were mass-producing Protestant tracts, and by 1550 some 10,000 books promoting Protestantism were spreading across Europe. So influential was the new technology that some historians have claimed--with some exaggeration--"no books, no Reformation." But at the same time, the religious controversy created a market for printing that hastened the application of the new machines. 

Early in the 17th century, the reading public, which had grown considerably larger, was perusing Francis Bacon, who called for nothing less than an end to the Church-backed ideas of Aristotle that had dominated European culture. In time, Galileo, Descartes, Kepler, and Newton challenged Europe's deepest cultural assumptions and traditions. This gave birth to modern science, or "natural philosophy," with its emphases on mechanism, empiricism, quantification, deism, and, ultimately, secularism. 

In 1705, Newcomen introduced a precursor to the steam engine. As steam-powered machines and early factories spread, the physician-philosopher Julian Offray de La Mettrie applied Newtonian mechanistic thinking to the human body, by analogy describing it as nothing more than a complex machine. In doing so, he challenged the concept of an immortal soul, outraging his countrymen. 

New attitudes about time, space, logic, causation, and knowledge itself followed. Values changed, emphasizing more the here and now than the promised rewards of heaven. The most profound assumptions of the era were thus challenged by a host of convergences between technology and culture, religion, and intellectual thought. Together they added up to what we have described as "indust-reality," the reigning ideology of the emergent industrial civilization. 

In due course, this grand convergence of mutually stimulative changes--a metaconvergence--triggered explosive economic upheavals, forever changing Western ideas about how wealth is produced. Monarchies toppled; cities and nation-states grew in size and power. Population swelled as productivity increased. Mass media appeared, as did, later, mass education. The result, after bitter conflicts over everything from the philosophical to the physical and financial, was nothing less than the slow construction of an urban, industrial economy immensely more productive than the earlier ones. The industrial era had arrived. 

WHAT IS HUMAN? 

Today we are once again racing toward a metaconvergence--this time at superaccelerated speeds. Just as La Mettrie and other 18th-century philosophers used machine analogies to describe the world around them, thinkers today attempt to explain many things, from urban crises to mental illness, in terms of systems theory and analogies drawn from computers. In this way technological changes interact with changes in the intellectual life of society, which, in turn, affect values--which then feed back into the kinds of technology we are willing to finance, develop, and apply. 

Religion, too, forms part of this matrix. In contrast to earlier centuries, Catholicism and Protestantism today basically coexist in the West--but secularism is under widespread attack and religion, for good or ill, is resurgent. 

This resurgence will be fueled by the life-and-death moral issues raised by the genetics revolution. For example: Is eugenics morally acceptable? Is providing a financial reward morally appropriate for organ donors? If we cannot sell or "own" a human under the laws banning slavery, should we be permitted to sell or own parts of a human? If today's battles over race and abortion can arouse passions to the point of bombings and murder, what will happen when we can create humans with previously nonexistent physical characteristics? Is a person with three breasts, or a single, cyclopean eye, "human"? What about genetically altered brains and emotions? What is the legal definition of human? 

Public uncertainty over questions like these could provide a wide opening for Islam, Christianity, and other religions to seize the initiative and moderate or prevent "antihuman" uses of the new powers granted us by technology. But religion's history reminds us that belief--particularly over matters of life and death--all too easily mutates into fanaticism. It is possible that as biological and convergent technological advances slam into society, internal differences over theology and politics might shatter existing churches and spawn new sects and cults around the world, fragmenting once-monolithic belief systems as the Reformation did in its time. 

In short, technologies may converge with one another, but they also converge with elements of society and culture in ways that produce not simply profit for this or that company, or the restructuring of industries and economies, but, over time, the restructuring and convergence of whole civilizations. 

And all this is heading our way. Welcome to the 21st century! 

Alvin and Heidi Toffler's book, Future Shock, published in 1970, set the tone for how we think about technology's impact on society. Their most recent book, War and Anti-War, was published in 1998. 

Document fb00000020011212dva400012


More Like This

 Article 128 *******************    



Disciplines 

All sciences merge into three; All of the world's scientific disciplines have influenced what Forbes ASAP has identified as the three topic areas that will help us understand all things great and small-M Theory, genetic engineering, and the new earth science. 

415 words 
4 October 1999
Forbes ASAP 
207 
Volume ; Issue 
English
Copyright 1999 Forbes Inc. 

With understanding comes complexity, then order, then finally simplicity. 

Three thousand years ago, at the birth of Western science, the Greek philosopher-scientists saw the universe with elegant simplicity. It was composed of fire, water, earth, and air--or, in the prescient prediction of Democritus, invisible infinitesimals called atoms. 

Aristotle changed all of that. Wherever he looked, he saw Platonic ideals but complex, messy reality. And so he set out to codify and characterize the material world in all of its diversity. In the Renaissance, a new way of looking at nature emerged, combining observation, hypothesis, and experimentation. With this scientific method in hand, scientists were no longer merely list makers and recorders but creators. As the chart shows, this experimental mental method proved unbeatable. By the 19th century, major discoveries were coming by the decade, almost every one spinning out a new scientific discipline. 

Now, at the end of the 20th century, we seem to be heading back from whence we came-back to elegant simplicity. Our multitude of separate sciences are converging into three: M-theory, and what we are calling Biological Engineering and the New Earth Science. 

At universities all around the world, some of the best minds are studying the interaction among living things and the systems and structures that support them. Scientists are drawing upon such diverse disciplines as oceanography, chemistry, and zoology in their quest to study and understand this New Earth Science. 

Over on the other side of campus, computer scientists, biochemists, and biologists are working at the very frontiers of Biological Engineering. Already, we can create and manipulate living things through genetic engineering. On the horizon, man and machine will converge as we explore the fields of nanotechnology, cybernetics, and artificial intelligence. 

With M-theory, still other scientists are attempting to explain the universe--from its tiniest quarks to its biggest black holes--in one complete unified theory. The universe, they believe, is composed of membranes that look a lot like those found in living cells and that exist in numerous dimensions. No doubt, those early Greek philosophers would have admired the elegance of this model--the long--delayed meeting between Plato and Aristotle, even if it took 11 different dimensions to occur. 

Document fb00000020011212dva400017


More Like This

 Article 129 *******************    



Convergence of Sciences 

Carol Pickering and Scott Lajoie 
1,667 words 
4 October 1999
Forbes ASAP 
Volume ; Issue 
English
Copyright 1999 Forbes Inc. 


           M-THEORYHow the universe is constructed
                                                BIOLOGICAL
ENGINEERINGGenetic engineering, nanotechnology, cybernetics,
artificial intelligence



                                                    NEW EARTH
SCIENCEInteraction between living and nonliving things
30,000 BC
           ASTRONOMY, 900-8001 BC Mayan astronomical
inscriptionsASTRONOMY, 4241 BC Egyptian calender is possibly
institutedASTRONOMY, 500-491 BC Pythagoreans teach the earth is a
spereASTRONOMY, 450-411 BC Philolaus suggests earth, sun, moon revolve
around a central fireASTRONOMY, 350 BC Aristotle theorizes earth is the
center of the universeASTRONOMY, 140-149 BC Ptolemy writes astronomical
text AlmagestASTRONOMY, 1075 Arzachel theorizes planets have elliptical
orbits
             PRE-GEOMETRY/ARITHMETIC, 30,000-25,001 BC Tallies recorded
on animal bone, stone, and ivoryPRE-GEOMETRY/ARITHMETIC, 8000-7001 BC
Mesopotamians develop numeration and writingARITHMETIC, 1800 BC Number
System is invented in SumeriaPRE-GEOMETRY/ARITHMETIC, 1800-1751 BC
Multiplication tables appear in MesopotamiaPRE-GEOMETRY/ARITHMETIC,
540-531 Pythagoreans develop arithemetic and geometryGeometry /
Arithemetic, 300-291 BC Euclid'sElementsformalizes geometry and
mathALGEBRA, 250 BC Diophantus'Arithmeticais the first work of
algebraPRE-GEOMETRY/ARITHMETIC,100-109 BC Menelaus develops spherical
trigonometryTRIGONOMETRY,1533 established as a discipline
                                SourcesHIstory of Science and
Technology: A Narrative Chronology. Facts on FileAsimov's Chronology
of Science Discovery. Harper RowBreakthroughs: A Chronology of Great
Achievements in Science and Math by Claire ParkinsonThe Timeline Book
of Science by George Ochoa and Melinda CoreyThe Timetables of Science:
A Chronology of the Most Important People and Events in the History of
Science by Alexander Hellemans and Bryan Bunch"The Theory Formerly
Known as Strings" by Michael Duff, Scientific American, February 1998
"M" by Peter Byrne, SF Weekly, February 10-16, 1999
  MEDICINE, 1550 BC Cures are written on papyrusPHARMACOLOGY, 77 BC
Pedanius Dioscorides describes about 600 plants in De Materia Medica
and spawns pharmacologyMEDICINE, 1316 Mondino De'Luzzi reintroduces
systematic teaching of anatomy into medical curriculum
BOTANY, 320 BC Theophrastus writes a book that describes 550 plant
speciesANATOMY,160 Galen dissects animalsNEW ANATOMY, 1543 Andreas
Vesalius upsets Greek Notions of anatomy, correcting over 200 errors
of Galen
NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, 334 BC Aristotle founds the Lyceum school of
PhilosophyZOOLOGY, 50 Pliny the Elder writesNaturalis HistoriaALCHEMY,
300 Zosimus attempts to change lead and iron into goldMINERALOGY, 1556
Georgius Agricola's De Re Metallica is published posthumously
                   METEOROLOGY, 350 BC
AristotlepensMeteorologikaALGEBRA, 250 BC Diophantus draws problems to
be solved algebraicallyOCEANOGRAPHY, 1210 Wallingford records tidal
observationsMAGNETISM, 1269 Plerin de Maricourt discovers magnetic
polesALGEBRA, 1535 Niccolo Tartaglia finds a general method for
solving cubic equations
ASTRONOMY, 900-8001 BC Mayan astronomical inscriptionsASTRONOMY, 4241
BC Egyptian calender is possibly institutedASTRONOMY, 500-491 BC
Pythagoreans teach the earth is a spereASTRONOMY, 450-411 BC Philolaus
suggests earth, sun, moon revolve around a central fireASTRONOMY, 350
BC Aristotle theorizes earth is the center of the universeASTRONOMY,
140-149 BC Ptolemy writes astronomical text AlmagestASTRONOMY, 1075
Arzachel theorizes planets have elliptical orbitsASTRONOMY, 1281 Qutb
al-Din al Shirazi establishes an alternate planetary model to
Ptolemy'sASTRONOMY, 1543 Nicolaus Copernicusestablishes the
heliocentric system
1600 AD
1750       ASTRONOMY, 1609 Johannes Kepler establishes that the planets
orbit around the sun in ellipsesASTRONOMY, 1657 Robert Hooke discovers
that all bodies fall at equal rates in a vacuumATOM TTEORY, 1666
Robert Boyle proposes all matter is made of atomsCLASSICAL
MECHANICS/PHYSICS, 1687 Issac Newton's Principia is published;
establishes Newton's three laws of motion and law of gravityATOM
THEORY, 1803 John Dalton states his atomic theory of matterATOM
THEORY, 1897 Joseph John Thomson discovers the electron
                      MAGNETISM, 1600 William Gilbert proposes in On
Magnetism that earth is a giant magnetELECTRICITY, 1660 Otto von
Guericke discovers static electricityLIGHT THEORY, 1665 Francesco
Grimaldi's posthumous theories of light publishedLIGHT THEORY, 1675
Ole Rmer determines the speed of lightLIGHT THEORY, 1690 Christiaan
Huygens publishes his wave theory of lightLIGHT THEORY, 1704 Newton
theorizes light is particulateELECTRICITY, 1733 Charles-Francois de
Cisternay du Fay links electricity to magnetism through the discovery
of two types of electric chargesLIGHT THEORY, 1857 Gustav Kirchoff
discovers static electric and magnetic forces are related through the
speed of lightELECTROMAGNETISM, 1864 James Clerk Maxwell discovers
that light is a form of electromagnetismASTROPHYSICS, 1884 Samuel
Langley's The New Anatomy ushera in the field of astrophysics
                                                      LOGARITHMIC
MATHEMATICS, 1614 John Napier publishes table of
logarithmsGEOMETRY/ARITHMETIC, 1637 Ren Descartes publishes
development of analytical geometrySTUDY OF ELECTRICITY, 1660 Otto von
Guericke fashions a contraption that includes a globe of sulfur to
generate static electricityCALCULUS, 1665 Issac Newton develops first
form of calculusCALCULUS, 1673-1676 Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz develops
his calculusCALCULUS, 1680s Jakob Beroulli makes controbutions to
differential and integral calculusCALCULUS, 1704 Newton publishes his
version of calculusMECHANICS, 1822 Charles Babbagedevises an idea for
mechanical machine to store data and computations such as logarithms
and trigonometric functionsTOPOLOGY, 1895 Jules-Henri Poincar
publishes the first work on topology, the math of geometric surfaces
OPTICS, 1590 Zacharias Janssen invents compound
microscopeBACTERIOLOGY, 1683 Anton van Leeuwenhoek observes
microscopic organisms and spawns bacteriologyBOOLEAN ALGEBRA, 1847
George Boole applies symbols to logical operations an publishes The
mathematical Analysis of Logic
                              CELL BIOLOGY, 1665 Robert Hooke publishes
Micrographia, giving way to cell biologyTAXONOMY, 1735 Carolus Linnaeus
develops systems for organism classificationEMBRYOLOGY, 1768 Kaspar
Wolff's De Formatione Intestinarum establishes principles of organs in
embryosCOMPARATIVE ANATOMY, 1798 Georges Cuvier studies the anatomies
of several animalsCELL BIOLOGY, 1838 Matthias Schleiden discovers that
plants are made of cellsBIOCHEMISTRY, 1860 Pierre-Eugne-Marcelin
Berthelot synthesizes organic moleculesGENETICS, 1865 Gregor Mendel
develops cross-breeding models  DEGENERATIVE EVOLUTION, 1749
George-Louis de Buffon proposes idea that species have devolved over
timeGEOLOGY, 1787 Abe Werner starts an analysis of the earth's
crustZOOLOGY, 1794 William Dandridge Peck publishes the first paper on
systematic zoologyPALONTOLOGY, 1812 george Cuvierpublishes inquirey
into fossil remainsEVOLUTION, 1859 Charles Darwin publishes On the
Origin of SpeciesPEDOLOGY, 1899 Jean-Baptiste Boussingault shows that
plants obtain nitrates from the soil, spawning pedology, the study of
soil  HYDROSTATICS, 1583 Simon Stevinus discovers factors determining
the pressure of liquids on surfacesOCEANOGRAPHY, 1738 Daniel Bernoulli
publishes HydrodynamicaFLUID DYNAMICS, 1744 Jean d'Alembert publishes
treatise on the Equilibrium and notions of FluidsPOPULATION
STATISTICS, 1761 Johann Peter Sussmilch initiates the study of
population statisticsMETEOROLOGY, 1793 John Dalton publishes
Meteorological Observations and Essays  ASTRONOMY, 1609 Johannes
Kepler establishes that the planets orbit around the sun in
ellipsesASTRONOMY, 1657 Robert Hooke discovers that all bodies fall at
equal rates in a vacuumATOM TTEORY, 1666 Robert Boyle proposes all
matter is made of atomsATOM THEORY, 1803 John Dalton states his atomic
theory of matterATOM THEORY, 1897 Joseph John Thomson discovers the
electron
1900 AD
1950       QUANTUM THEORY, 1900 Max plank introduces quantum theory
after discovering energy is emitted in the form of quantaQUANTUM
THEORY, 1911 Ernest Rutherford models the atom NIels Bohr applies
quantum theory to the model of the atomQUANTUM MECHANICS, 1926 Max
Born, Werner Heisenberg, and Erwin Schrdinger found quantum mechanics
from quantum theoryQUANTUM MECHANICS,1927 Heisenberg theorizes his
uncertainty principleQUANTUM ELECTRODYNAMICS, 1948 Richard Feynman
develops the theory of quantum electrodynamicsQUANTUM FIELD THEORY,
1954 Modern quantum field theory is establishedQUANTUM FIELD THEORY,
1962 Paul Dirac theorizes electrons may be membranes or bubblesQUANTUM
FIELD THEORY, 1974 Sheldon Lee Glashow and Howard Georgi introduce the
first grand unified theory, linking strong, weak, and electromagnetic
forces of particles  ELECTROMAGNETISM, 1905 Albert Einsteinexplains
photoelectricity and light as a particle; also defines special
relativity and connection between energy and mass, E=mc(2)RELATIVITY,
1916 Albert Einsteinproposes his general theory of
relativityRELATIVITY, 1917 Willem de Sitter states the universe is
expanding using the theory of relativityRELATIVITY, 1919 Theodor
Kaluzaproposes five dimensionsMODERN COSMOLOGY, 1927 Georges Lematre
theorizes the universe was created by a large explosionMODERN
COSMOLOGY, 1939 J. Robert Oppenheimer details the existence of black
holesMODERN COSMOLOGY, 1965 Arno Penzias and Robert Woodrow Wilson
find radiowave evidence of the big bangMODERN COSMOLOGY, 1971 Stephen
Hawking proposes mini black holes existed at universe's birthMODERN
COSMOLOGY, 1976 Tom Kibble proposes cosmic strings (thin, massive
objects light years in length) to be ripples in the universe that took
form after the big bang; supergravity also introduced to physicsMODERN
COSMOLOGY, 1978 Eugene Cremmer, Bernard Julia, and Joel Scherk propose
supergravity allows the universe to have 11 dimensions with 7 curled
upMODERN COSMOLOGY, 1984 Michael Green and John Schwartz make
important discoveries related to superstring theoryMODERN COSMOLOGY,
1995 Edward Witten invents mathmatical theory of quantum gravity; all
string theories united under M-theory: strings or particles can appear
as membrains in 11 demensions  APPLIED LOGIC, 1928 John von Neuman
develops game theoryMECHANICS, 1930 Vannevar Bush develops machine
capable of solving differential equationsMECHANICS, 1946 John Mauchly
and John Eckert build ENIACELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, 1948 William
Shockley, Walter Brattain, and John Bardeen develop the
transistorCOMPUTER SCIENCE, 1956 John Backus and IBM team develop
FORTRANTOPOLOGY, 1998 Michael Atiyah discovers the equation for
typological knot theory is rhe same as quantum gauge theory
                        CHROMATOGRAPHY, 1906 Mikhail Tsvet develops the
absorption chromatography technique of separating plant
pigmentsONCOLOGY, 1913 Johannes Fibiger induces cancerous growth in
ratsBACTERIOLOGY, 1952 Joshua Lederbergobserves bacteria conjugate and
exchange genetic materialCHROMATOGRAPHY, 1950s Stanford Moore and
Willian Stein pioneer new methods in chromotography for use in
analyzing amino acidsBIOCHEMISTRY, 1951 Linus Pauling discovers the
protein helixBIOCHEMISTRY, 1953 Francis Crick and James Watson
identify the double helix of DNABACTERIOLOGY, 1969 Jonathan Beckwith
isolates a single geneGENOMICS, 1970 Fredrick Sanger and Walter
Gilbert start mapping the structure of DNAONCOLOGY, 1986 Robert A.
Weinberg and team discover first gene to inhibit growth of cancer
cells  CELL BIOLOGY, 1911 Thomas Hunt Morgan discovers chromosomes are
the agents of heredityGENETICS, 1980 Martin Cline and team transfer a
working gene from one mouse to anotherGENETICS, 1983 Andrew W. Murray
and Jack W. Szostak create the first artificial chromosome
ETHOLOGY, 1907 Nikolaas Tinbergen studies herring gulls and identifies
the submissive posture, sparking the study of animal behaviorZOOGRAPHY,
1920s Lev Berg broadened his study of fish species to include other
animals
            CLIMATOLOGY, 1920 Milutin Milankovich suggests astronomical
factors play a part in the seasonsCLIMATOLOGY, 1961 Edqard M. Lorenz
accidentally finds the first mathematical system with chaotic behavior
in a computer weather modelGEOLOGY, 1980s Scientists prove movement of
the earth's plates using satellites and lasers
2000 AD


Document fb00000020011212dva400018


More Like This

 Article 130 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

PLOTTING THE FINEST LINES ON COMPUTER CHIPS 

EDITED BY ELLEN LICKING 
268 words 
1 November 1999
Business Week 
84 
Number 3653 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Researchers at Northwestern University announced in the Oct. 15 issue of Science that they have invented the world's smallest and most accurate plotter. Their so-called nanoplotter is capable of drawing minuscule lines--each is only about 30 molecules wide--with such precision that only 200 billionths of an inch separates them. 

If the technology can be commercialized, it might be used to pack more processing power onto a computer chip, boosting speed and performance. It could also lead to diagnostic devices that can load thousands of medical sensors onto an area smaller than the head of a pin. 

The Northwestern group, led by Chad A. Mirkin, built their tiny plotter from a common laboratory instrument called an atomic force microscope. Typically, such a scope is used to map the surfaces of molecules, but Mirkin turned it into a writing instrument by coating its tip with molecular ink. When the tip comes in contact with a thin sheet of gold, molecules of the ink are transferred to the gold's surface. 

Using the technique, the researchers were able to draw the university's initials in fine lines one molecule high. They further improved on the technology by placing multiple inks--different kinds of molecules--side by side with such accuracy that the chemical identity of each line was maintained. Mirkin's plotter is also fast. In lab tests, it took the nanoplotter just 10 minutes to write about 100 words in molecules. That gives new meaning to the power of the written word. 

Document bw00000020010825dvb1002bs


More Like This

 Article 131 *******************    



LEISURE & ARTS 
Bookshelf 

This is Really Something --- By Jim Holt 

1,033 words 
10 November 1999
The Wall Street Journal 
A20 
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

Zero is a funny number. In fact, some people appear to be unsure about whether it is a number at all. Last year in Centre County, Pa., the county commissioners voted to abolish an unpopular tax on occupations by evaluating the tax rate officially at zero. Since this left the local school boards painfully short of income, they sued the county, arguing that zero was not a value. To substantiate the claim, their attorney had a former county assessor try to divide by zero on his pocket calculator. It displayed an E for "error." 

How this case was resolved I don't know. But it is not the first time that zero has been a source of confusion. Unlike the counting numbers (1,2,3 . . . ), which have the solidity of God-given things, zero seems strangely ambiguous, not to say paradoxical. Is it the absence of number or the number for absence? If it stands for nothing, then how can it be treated as a something? 

You may dismiss such difficulties as idle and metaphysical, yet they have had great practical consequences for Western civilization, as Robert Kaplan shows "The Nothing That Is: The Natural History of Zero." To the Greeks and Romans, the very idea of zero was inconceivable. They did not have a symbol for it in their number systems. Thus they could not make use of convenient "positional" notation, in which, for example, 307 stands for three hundreds, no tens, and seven ones. And that was not good for ancient science, let alone for everyday arithmetic. Just try adding or multiplying with Roman numerals -- it's fiendishly hard. 

So where did the familiar hollow circle that we use to denote zero come from? That's a story fraught with mystery, and Mr. Kaplan tells it well, blending rival historical accounts with his own conjectures. (He speculates, for instance, that the form of zero is derived from the impression left by a counting chip in the sand.) 

Hindu mathematicians were evidently the first to use the modern symbol for zero. Their notation was transmitted westward during the Middle Ages by Arab scholars. On its arrival in Europe, zero began to take on greater reality, evolving from a sort of punctuation mark within numerals into a freestanding number in its own right. Oddly enough, the rise of commerce had something to do with this. When double-entry bookkeeping was invented in Italy around 1340, zero came to be viewed as a natural dividing point between positive numbers (credits) and negative numbers (debits). 

Whether "discovered" or "invented," zero was a number to be reckoned with. Philosophical doubts about its nature gave way to virtuoso calculations by great mathematical figures like Fibonacci and Fermat. Zero proved to be the key to solving algebraic equations: If the equation could be put in the form ab=0, then it must follow that either a=0 or b=0. A closely related abstraction, that of the infinitely small -- "almost zero" -- enabled Newton to invent the calculus, which became the mathematical engine of the Scientific Revolution. 

Mr. Kaplan, a popularizer of mathematics who has taught at Harvard, is an erudite and often witty writer, but he can make you wince with his occasional patches of purple prose. ("We had put out a bowl of milk for the little Robin Goodfellow of zero and here he is grown burly. Is he about to reveal himself as the bat-winged destroyer of our reason?") His concluding reflections on nothingness, moreover, are marred by a good deal of guff: Zero is "a shadow in the slanting light of fear," God is zero, America is the land of zero and so on. I am glad it did not occur to him that in tennis the word for zero is "love." 

If the story of zero has a moral, it is that a new symbol -- a mere mark on paper -- can sometimes push our thoughts in new directions, lead to sweeping new discoveries. In this century, another such symbol was invented by the physicist Richard Feynman (1918-88). "Feynman diagrams," a shorthand way of representing how electrons and photons interact, enabled their creator to work out the clearest version of quantum electrodynamics (which happens to be the most accurate theory in all of physics). They also, by virtue of their intuitive simplicity and power, have become a universal tool for physicists trying to understand the world of elementary particles. 

Feynman was an endlessly fascinating character. Since his death he has been the subject of at least three biographies, not to mention a movie in which he was played by Matthew Broderick. Now, with "The Pleasure of Finding Things Out: The Best Short Works of Richard Feynman" joining all the other volumes by and about him, it would appear that practically every thought he ever had is in print. 

Fortunately, Feynman seemed incapable of having a thought that wasn't fresh and original. This sparkling collection includes his minority report on the space shuttle Challenger (remember him dunking the O-ring in a glass of ice water at the televised press conference to show what went wrong?); unpretentious, thinking-aloud pieces on the value of science and its relation to religion; and his famous 1959 talk, "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom," which, by detailing ingenious ways of building microscopic computers and factories, helped launch today's nanotechnology revolution. 

There are also lots of entertaining reminiscences, my favorite being Feynman's account of giving his first formal lecture. He was only a graduate student, and his audience included Albert Einstein, Wolfgang Pauli and many other daunting figures, so he had reason to be petrified. But he managed to present his theory anyway. Then, recalls Feynman: "Professor Pauli stood up -- he was sitting next to Professor Einstein. He said, `I do not think this theory can be right because of this and this and that and the other thing and so forth, don't you agree, Professor Einstein?' Einstein said, `No-o-o-o,' and that was the nicest no I ever heard." 

(See related letter: "Go Figure" -- WSJ Nov. 18, 1999) 

Document j000000020010828dvba00vf7


More Like This

 Article 132 *******************    



Books 

THE POLLYANNA PROPHECIES 

BY MICHAEL J. MANDEL 
1,239 words 
22 November 1999
Business Week 
26 
Number 3656 
English
(c) 1999 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

THE LONG BOOM A Vision for the Coming Age of Prosperity By Peter Schwartz, Peter Leyden, and Joel Hyatt Perseus Books 336pp $26 

Any period of sustained growth brings forth the utopian visionaries. The boom of the 1960s, for example, saw the U.S. ready to declare a war on poverty. 

This time around, utopia looks a lot like a global version of Silicon Valley--at least to the authors of The Long Boom. Elaborating on a widely quoted 1997 Wired magazine article, Peter Schwartz, Peter Leyden, and Joel Hyatt--a consultant, a journalist, and an entrepreneur, all based in the San Francisco Bay area--have produced a book that describes a modern-day paradise on earth. The Long Boom, write the authors, ``is a vision of...a better, more prosperous and peaceful world.'' The key is rapid global growth that continues for decades: ``High economic growth solves the core issues facing the world today.'' 

The book, according to the authors, is ``not a prediction.'' Rather, it is an exhortatory tract. Their hope is that by laying out a positive vision of the future, they will increase the chance that it will happen. 

From this perspective, The Long Boom is a welcome relief from the pessimism of conventional economics. Indeed, the volume's target of 4% to 6% global growth for at least the next 20 years is well within the realm of possibility. Annual global growth during the second half of the 20th century averaged about 3%, and the Internet and related technologies could add a percentage point, as BUSINESS WEEK wrote in a recent cover story, ``The Internet Age'' (BW--Oct. 4). Breakthrough innovations such as nanotechnology--the engineering of individual atoms--could boost world growth even more. 

But even a shining vision needs analysis and some hint that the authors have thought about what might go wrong. That is what is missing from this book. The Long Boom simply assumes that everything will go well for the next 20 years. Massive technological, economic, and political problems are written off with a sentence, if that. As a result, The Long Boom comes across as an overly cheerful sermon rather than a compelling blueprint. 

Take the economy. The word ``recession'' is not mentioned in the index. Instead, economic downturns are viewed as resulting mainly from a lack of sufficient business and consumer confidence, to be best solved by more upbeat thinking. Solvable problems turn into a crisis because of ``the anxiety that has mushroomed around them,'' write the authors. If the global community is ``edging toward a state of depression''--in both the emotional and economic senses--it's ``largely because of the lack of a positive vision.'' 

But Schwartz, Leyden, and Hyatt fail to acknowledge that periods of great technological change are often highly volatile, as workers and corporations lose their old nichesign has gotten funkier over the past few years as engineers try to achieve that elusive golden posture. One of the most popular ergonomic keyboards--Microsoft's Keyboard Elite-- helps somewhat, Johnson says, by giving you about four more inches of workspace. But the design pushes the mouse farther away than it should be, so she doesn't recommend the gadget, which costs about $50 per keyboard. 

Instead, Johnson suggests looking at either the contoured keyboard, which is made by Kinesis Corp., or one from obvious to them, but it's not clear how networks can stop an overhyped stock market from collapsing. 

Problems that have bedeviled smart and dedicated people for decades are summarily dismissed. Take the matter of economically underdeveloped countries. ``The old model was to let every country slowly make its way up the technology food chain.'' Their solution? ``We need to transfer know-how and technology''--as if the importation of advanced technologies into developing countries had never been tried before. 

For the most part, the book lacks historical perspective--unless you count the authors' use of ``future history.'' For much of the book, they write as if they were looking back from the 21st century, giving their arguments an undeserved aura of certainty. This conceit may confound serious readers, for it produces a bizarre blend of real and imaginary companies in the index. For example, New York Times is followed there by a listing for Nippon Nano, a fictitious Japanese nanotechnology giant supposedly operating in the middle of the next century. 

The authors' faith in the inevitable progress of technology is touching. Their vision of worldwide rapid growth requires a new source of nonpolluting energy to substitute for fossil fuels. Not to worry, they say: Most of the environmentally sound technologies needed ``are already here, already fully developed, and getting competitively priced.'' 

Well, maybe. Their choice for the energy technology of the Long Boom is the fuel cell, which turns hydrogen and oxygen into water and power. That's certainly a clean technology, and it's potentially quite efficient. There's a catch, though. As the authors admit, another source of power is needed to generate the hydrogen in the first place--and for the foreseeable future, that means the current power plants will keep running. 

Similarly, the authors argue that the average lifespan can be extended to age 120, but they decline to deal with any of the negative implications. What if scientists cannot cure Alzheimer's, so that we have a nation of barely functional centenarians? Or conversely, what if people keep working well into their second century, so that older generations end up much wealthier than younger ones? It would have been nice to hear a bit about how the authors would solve these problems. Instead, they devote a whole chapter to what they call ``wild science''--things like warp drives that can drive spacecraft faster than light. 

Their self-congratulatory naivete shows up most clearly in their vision of future politics--which follows the apolitical Silicon Valley model. ``A different political mentality seems to be emerging on the West Coast,'' they write. ``It's not about left or right; it's about what works.'' 

But this model is based on the assumption that everyone across the globe shares the same values. In a world populated by nationalist Serbs, religious fundamentalists, and radical environmentalists, one cannot assume a future with globally shared values. 

Indeed, though the authors stress how, in their research, they crisscrossed the world, their parochialism is breathtaking. ``The Americans have figured out an economic model that works marvelously,'' they write. ``The world needs to open up just enough to see that taking some new ideas and developing them further is in its best interests.'' 

The book also includes some jarring examples of national stereotyping. The French and the southern European cultures are ``romantics.'' Asians are ``fantastic at absorbing new methods and mastering set courses.'' The Japanese ``resist change at all costs for as long as possible, and then adopt new ideas wholesale.'' And the poor Russians have ``a remarkable capacity for suffering.'' 

Ultimately, The Long Boom is based on a pervasive sense that Silicon Valley today is the most important place in history. As the authors have one of their imaginary future characters say: ``The future is being born right around me, and for that I am ecstatic.'' That sentiment may sound appropriate in a religious text--but it's not a good road map for the future. 

Mandel covers the New Economy from New York. 

Document bw00000020010825dvbm0037h


More Like This

 Article 133 *******************    



Departments: Digital Rules 

Fat, Florid, Farcical 

BY Rich Karlgaard 
702 words 
29 November 1999
Forbes 
051 
English
(c) 1999 Forbes Inc.

such was the 207-page "finding of fact" delivered by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson on November 5. Like author, like paper, we say. The jowly judge found Microsoft to be a monopoly. Okay--by definition any company with an advantage in the marketplace must do something you don't and therefore is a monopolist. Next. He called Microsoft "predatory." Well, yes, the Gates gang is a hardball competitor with a tin ear for niceties. Let's go on. He said Microsoft hurt consumers and slowed innovation. That's pure baloney! 

Judge Jackson--who writes in longhand and discovered PCs about 30 seconds ago--says Microsoft has been inquisitioning innovation and kicking customers in the groin since it acquired its monopoly status around 1990. All this assumes the bulbous barrister would recognize computer innovation if it fell on his head. Right. Look at the facts. Since 1990: 

-- Tim Berners-Lee completed his work on the World Wide Web. 

-- The Web browser was invented at the University of Illinois. 

-- Marc Andreessen and Jim Clark founded Netscape to commercialize the browser. 

-- Jeff Bezos started Amazon and launched the e-commerce revolution. 

-- Venture capital thrown at information technology startups rose fortyfold from $2 billion a year to $80 billion a year, when you include corporate VCs and angels. 

-- The Palm Pilot reached a million customers faster than any other computing device in history. 

-- Palm licensed its operating system to Nokia and Handspring, cutting Microsoft Windows CE off at the knees. 

-- Sun Microsystems invented the Java language and started a mass exodus of computer programming talent away from Microsoft toward Sun. The exodus continues. 

-- Sun won the Internet server battle and checked progress of Microsoft Windows NT in its tracks. 

-- AOL grew faster than Microsoft. 

-- AOL's stock rose faster than Microsoft's. 

-- AOL's home page kicked MSN nine ways till Sunday. 

-- So did Yahoo's. 

-- A Finnish entrepreneur tunneled under the Windows monopoly to create Linux. 

-- Linux acquired 12 million customers, all at the leading edge of Web-centric computing. 

-- Red Hat, a Linux support company, went public and attained a multibillion-dollar market cap. 

-- ASPs (application service providers), an idea developed with a goal to cripple Microsoft, became, this year, the hottest funded category of software. 

-- Steve Jobs returned to Apple and made it once again the fastest growing major PC company. 

Yeah, Microsoft has sure killed innovation during its decade of monopoly dominance. 

INFINITE AND ZERO, II 

Ten years ago Tom Wolfe wrote a memorable essay for Harper's called "Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast." It sought to explain why so few writers were attempting the Great American Novel. Wolfe blamed it on reality. Late-20th-century America had become such a rowdy, hog-stomping carnival that it swamped even the best novelist's imagination. 

Well, ditto the futurist's. A couple of months ago we noted a Science article about how scientists at UCLA and Hewlett-Packard had successfully tricked molecules into behaving as memory bits (see Digital Rules, Aug. 23). While the work was early and crude--the researchers had merely demonstrated "read-only" memory thus far--it nevertheless predicted the dawn of a new era of molecular computing. Coming soon: chips the size of a white blood cell and whole computers no bigger than a speck of dust. Now comes a winter issue of Science. The crunchy problem of "read-write" molecular gates will take many years to solve, right? Wrong. "We just did it," say researchers at Yale and Rice Universities. Ah, but circuits, they're always the showstopper, unshrinkable past a point. Wrong again. Think nanotubes of atoms, coated in titanium, a billionth of a meter thick, say the Yale and Rice teams. 

No joke--computation is racing toward infinite power at zero cost. Faster than we ever thought. Moore's Law will skip past silicon, giving the finger as it goes. A single molecular chip will rival the human brain by 2020, all of New York City's brains by 2040, and the world's by 2050. 

For further discussion of this and other topics, go to the forum at our Web site at www.forbes.com/karlgaard. 

Document fb00000020010827dvbt001lr


More Like This

 Article 134 *******************    



The Wall Street Journal Millennium (A Special Report): Industry & Economics --- Think Small: Imagine changing a chair into a table at the flick of a switch; Welcome to nanotechnology

By Timothy Aeppel 
1,781 words 
31 December 1999
The Wall Street Journal 
R40 
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

Call it the lure of the Lilliputian. 

When it comes to making things, smaller is usually better. Think of cell phones or heart defibrillators. Smaller things are simply more useful and cheaper, usually. Even big things benefit from miniaturization; consider the electronics inside sport-utility vehicles. 

But gazing into the next century, smallness is broaching a frontier that makes the tiniest dimensions used in today's factories seem like football fields or rows of Greyhound buses. The terminology is fuzzy, like the emerging science it describes, but those studying it often lump it under the banner of "nanotechnology." A nanometer is a unit of measure equal to a billionth of a meter -- the level at which individual atoms can be recognized. 

Viewed broadly, nanotechnology is mankind's effort to measure and fiddle with things at this minuscule level, and one obvious place to begin using such capabilities is computers. The smallest memory devices today are still designed and built at dimensions far above the nano-level, and some experts warn that this technology is nearing its limits. However, building things like a wristwatch-size device that can carry an entire Library of Congress -- one of the totems of computer visionaries -- will require new breakthroughs in miniaturization. Nanotechnology might be the path. 

Fine, you're thinking, but what does this have to do with making SUVs? 

You'd be surprised. There are serious scientists and engineers suggesting that through nanotechnology, we could eventually, sometime in the next century, turn our production philosophy on its head. Rather than hacking our much-desired little things out of bigger lumps of materials like steel or silicon, we could simply build them from the ground up, one atom at a time. 

"Nanotechnology is where microtechnology was 15 or 20 years ago," says Robert M. Mehalso, president of Microtec Associates, a Rochester, N.Y., technology consulting firm. "In other words, it's still in its infancy." 

The most extreme view of nanotechnology opens startling possibilities. Manufacturing would no longer consist of cobbling together things from component parts like spark plugs and sheets of steel. Instead, you'd create factories at the molecular level able to churn out virtually any product desired from materials ubiquitous in the atmosphere, like dirt and water. Proponents of this view, often associated with the author K. Eric Drexler, envision minuscule robots called assemblers that could build almost anything, including other assemblers. 

"When people really get the concept, they look at matter in a different light," says Christine Peterson, executive director of the Foresight Institute, a Palo Alto, Calif. think tank set up by Mr. Drexler to study nanotechnology. 

Far from being the solid stuff of everyday life, matter in the world of nanotechnology becomes dynamic. Ms. Peterson says nanotechnology might make it possible, for instance, to build things like a chair with a switch that enabled it to change shape into a table. It may sound like science fiction, but if you can arrange atoms one way, you should be able to shift them into other structures. Not only would the chair be able to change shape, it would do so extremely fast. And it wouldn't have to melt into a lump of muck first; it would go straight from one to the other. 

Such a world would need factories only for big items and other commodities. For smaller goods, each home might have its own black box -- able to download computer instructions that would enable it to produce any product desired by the owner. Pollution from factories and poverty would vanish, and the products themselves would be perfect in every way. Of course, the same technology also could be used to build horrible weapons; that's one reason that proponents say we should think about the implications of nanotechnology before the capabilities start to emerge. 

Provocative visions like these have led to something of a rift within the scientific community over nanotechnology. Many universities are doing research in the area, as are big companies like International Business Machines Corp. The Pentagon, too. There's obviously huge potential for such science to revolutionize the way we live and work. But there's a danger of letting our imaginations run away with us, warns Harold Craighead, a professor of applied and engineering physics at Cornell University, who also heads the school's Nanobiotechnology Center. 

"If people get the expectation that [science-fiction-like] things are achievable in the near term, they'll end up disappointed," he says. Moreover, some of the wilder notions may never be achieved. There are too many questions still hovering over the field, he says, such as how you power and control nanosized devices. 

What's needed is a great deal of old-fashioned scientific research. But Mr. Craighead wryly notes that it's often the flashier stuff that gets attention, even at Cornell. A few years ago, for instance, several of his students caused a stir by crafting a tiny guitar out of silicon; each of its six strings were no more than 100 atoms wide. The entire musical instrument would fit inside one human blood cell. Of course, though the strings could be made to resonate, no musician could hold it or play it. 

"The fact that it's shaped like a guitar means nothing for making devices that are useful at that size," he says. But it does serve a purpose: For people who don't know about this field, he adds, it shows that we can make extremely tiny, recognizable things. Cornell researchers more recently made a harp using the same technique. 

So how far away are the practical breakthroughs? Ralph Merkle anticipates "intermediate capabilities that will give us some commercial applications" of nanotechnology within a decade. A computer expert and engineer, Mr. Merkle previously studied nanotechnology at Xerox Corp.'s Palo Alto Research Center in California. But he recently took a job at Zyvex LLC, a start-up in Richardson, Texas, that is vowing to commercialize a system for building things from atoms. 

"There are those who say 10 years is a hugely ambitious goal, but we're going to give it a shot," he says. 

For most of the scientific community, the goals are more modest. That's certainly true for T. Ross Kelly, a professor at Boston College. Because nanotechnology has yet to form an identity of its own as a separate science, research is being done by specialists in a variety of disciplines -- physics, engineering, biology and, as in the case of Mr. Kelly, organic chemistry. 

Mr. Kelly normally works on things like new antibiotics. But motors fascinate him. His office on the outskirts of Boston is lined with a collection of strange devices he has collected over the years that seem to defy physical laws, such as a "memory wire" that automatically straightens out -- no matter how much it's twisted -- when it's placed into a cup of water. About five years ago, he started trying to make a chemically powered, molecular motor. "Not for any applied reason," he says, "but because I think it's cool." 

He finally succeeded, creating a motor consisting of just 78 atoms. It caused a stir among nanotechnology enthusiasts and was written up in the magazine Nature. It looks a bit like a waterwheel, but it only pivots 120 degrees before grinding to a halt. It has no known use, but that didn't stop people from calling to ask if his device could someday power a robotic assembler. 

His response: Only after a great deal more is learned about how to control and direct such a tiny motor. 

His next goal is to create a motor that can turn in full circles and operate continuously. Mr. Kelly thinks it's possible, but cautions that it's likely to "take years." 

Part of the problem for nanotechnology is its image as something of a fringe science. The science has spawned a following among futurists who have little scientific background and has even become a niche within science-fiction novels. A recent episode of "The X-Files" hinged on the idea of nano-devices somehow making their way into the blood of one of the regular characters, allowing a villain to control the person's health with a hand-held device about the size of a pocket calculator. 

Nanotechnology will certainly revolutionize some things. For instance, building things from atoms could yield new materials that are many times stronger or far lighter than anything known today. However, some processes may simply make more sense to do the old-fashioned way. It may be possible to make an oak shelf one atom at a time, for instance, but we may decide we already have the best possible way to create such a product. It's called a tree. 

There's also the economics. We've come to accept the notion that as things shrink, they grow cheaper. But at some point, that may no longer be the case. Even nanotechnology enthusiasts admit that without certain breakthroughs that allow atomic assembly to occur easily and quickly, it could be extremely costly to make things at the atomic scale. 

And finally, there's the question of whether it's desirable. A technology that produces almost everything at a nominal cost raises interesting questions for a society structured as it is at the end of the 20th century. 

For instance, most traditional jobs would disappear. Howard Baetjer Jr., an economist at Towson University in Maryland, has pondered such things and says it shouldn't be much different from the shift away from agriculture that occurred earlier in mankind's development. Once, most people in the world labored in the fields, but only a tiny fraction do today. 

"What are all those people doing?" says Mr. Baetjer. "They're manicuring ladies' toes at boutiques in New York, they're producing Sega computer toys, and producing magazines that appeal to tastes and interests that nobody could have imagined some time ago." 

In other words, our economy is a fluid thing that will open doors few people can imagine viewed from the limited perspective of the present. Who knows? Maybe the advent of plentiful and perfect products will revive interest in handmade items. It's conceivable the ultimate sign of prosperity in a nanotechnological future will be eating off dinner plates you made yourself, with lopsided handles and fingerprints visible in the glazed surfaces. 

--- 

Timothy Aeppel is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Pittsburgh bureau. 

Document j000000020010828dvcv00zfz


More Like This

 Article 135 *******************    



Politics & Policy 

Clinton Plans Major Initiative on Scientific Research 

By John D. McKinnon 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
1,310 words 
31 December 1999
The Wall Street Journal 
A12 
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

WASHINGTON -- President Clinton plans to launch a major initiative to promote scientific research, hoping to cement his administration's legacy of federal help in fostering the New Economy. 

The initiative will include proposed funding boosts for basic research in several areas, including information technology, health care and supercomputers. 

The proposal, to be unveiled with the president's 2001 budget request in February, could give the administration's top technophile, Vice President Al Gore, something to crow about at a time when his prospects in the presidential race remain uncomfortably uncertain. 

Mr. Gore "has got the emerging champion in him, especially in medical research and the Internet, two issues he's passionate about," says Ray Merenstein, vice president of Research! America, an advocacy group for health-care science based in Alexandria, Va. If the administration comes out with a big funding proposal, "he can say, 'I fought for that,' and make himself look good." 

Indeed, even some Republicans and other critics of Mr. Gore tacitly concede that boosting government science funding is a big potential plus for him. Congress last year agreed to fund an administration high-tech budget proposal but pointedly changed the program's name because it had become closely identified with the vice president, some observers say. 

The new tech package will be one of a half-dozen major initiatives to be included in the White House's budget blueprint for fiscal year 2001, according to people familiar with internal administration deliberations. 

The administration's proposal will reflect a little-noticed but growing consensus among lawmakers, policy officials and others about the proper role for Washington to play in scientific research. Early in the Clinton administration, the White House tried to promote practical applications of technological breakthroughs, through the Department of Commerce and other agencies. 

Many Republican resisted the effort, worried about getting the government so directly involved in bringing new technologies to market. And when the economy improved and private industry began spending more on research and development, the urge eased for government involvement. 

"The debate has swung toward basic research as the place for the federal government to have the best impact," says Kei Koizumi, director of R&D budget and policy for the American Association for the Advancement of Science. With the technology-fueled boom of the late 1990s, "the focus is on ensuring that this continues with future technologies." 

The new White House effort will increase funding on a broad range of recent federal efforts in scientific research. It also will propose to expand work in cutting-edge areas such as supercomputers and nanotechnology, which involves tiny systems such as engineered cells. 

In a speech earlier this month, President Clinton appeared to lay the groundwork for the initiative, crediting technology with much of the economy's stellar performance and calling for more public investment. "If we want our current prosperity to continue into the 21st century, we must . . . clearly continue to encourage the creation and the spread of new technologies in our own economy," he declared. 

Earlier this year, a presidential advisory panel warned that the U.S. is "gravely underinvesting" in basic long-range information-technology research, such as supercomputers for modeling weather systems and ultrafast software. The panel recommended roughly doubling over the next five years the $1.3 billion that the government spent on information-technology research last year. 

When the panel studied research and development data, members concluded that applied research was being funded reasonably well, thanks to rapid expansion of industry R&D. Industry research increased by 11% from 1998 to 1999 alone, by one measure, while federal research rose by only 1%. In fact, total U.S. R&D could rise to a record share of the economy next year, surpassing the 1964 high mark of 2.87%. 

But industry R&D -- especially in computer-related fields -- tends to focus on short-term, applied concepts, driven by competitive pressures. Considering both government and private-sector research, the panel concluded that fundamental scientific research "had maybe even been going down a bit relative to overall [information technology] budgets," explains Irving Wladawsky-Berger, general manager of International Business Machines Corp.'s Internet Division in Somers, N.Y., and co-chairman of the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee. 

Administration officials refused to release exact numbers for the administration's 2001 information-technology proposal, but "it will be forward looking and meet expectations," says Henry Kelly, assistant director for technology at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Members of the advisory panel "will be pleased," he added. 

The panel recommended a $472 million spending increase for this fiscal year ending Sept. 30, 2000, while the White House asked for a $366 million increase and Congress approved a $235 million increase. For next fiscal year, the advisory panel had recommended a $733 million increase over the 1999 level. 

Mr. Gore's office and campaign didn't respond to requests for comment on the budget proposal or his role in shaping it. 

Much of the recent funding effort has focused on what Mr. Kelly calls the "hideously complex" problems posed by future generations of supercomputers. "Instead of having one or two processors, you're talking about thousands or millions of chips," Mr. Kelly explains. "They have to be able to operate together and share memory." 

The new darling of this year's administration research initiative may prove to be so-called nanotechnology, involving manipulation of extremely small systems -- such as cells -- for some kinds of production, and even computing. Practical applications of this would include the design and manufacture of pharmaceuticals, for example. 

When officials gave White House Budget Director Jack Lew a briefing book earlier this year on R&D funding proposals, they highlighted the nanotechnology sections by putting tiny print on the cover and giving Mr. Lew a large magnifying glass to help him read it. 

"There's been huge excitement in the last few years" over nanotechnology, Mr. Kelly adds. "We're trying to make sure that's adequately reflected in our budget." 

Other specifics reportedly under consideration include plans for biotechnology; energy-saving cars, trucks and other materials, a favorite of the vice president; and health-care research. While campaigning, Mr. Gore has proposed significantly boosting cancer research through human-genome research. 

Another likely theme of the research-funding proposal: an attempt to present a research budget that provides more balance than recent spending plans have between different areas of science. In recent years, Congress has favored health research at the expense of some other high-tech categories that the administration prefers. Budgets have risen sharply for the National Institutes of Health, for example, while some administration officials feel that physics and computer science have deserved more. 

In his speech this month, Mr. Clinton said he wanted to "make this point very strongly . . . that we have a balanced research portfolio." He added, "advances in health care, for example, are often dependent on breakthroughs in other disciplines such as the physics needed for medical imaging technology." 

But the challenge of focusing research money is especially hard at a time when tight spending caps set during the era of budget deficits continue to limit federal spending. "We've made a big effort to not miss any important bets, and it's a painful process as you can imagine," says Mr. Kelly. 


---
            More Money for Scientific Research
  Shifting Priorities
  Government expenditures, % change from fiscal 1994-2000, in
inflation-adjusted dollars
  National Institutes of Health -- +47.00
  National Science Foundation -- +14.40
  Dept. of Defense -- - 1.00
  Dept. of Energy -- - 4.00
  NASA -- - 6.50
  Total Nondefense R&D -- +12.10
  Total Defense R&D -- - 0.20
  Source: NSF


Document j000000020010828dvcv00zj7


More Like This

 Article 136 *******************    



Health & Science: Clinton to Propose More Funding for Research 

By Glenn Burkins 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
685 words 
24 January 2000
The Wall Street Journal 
B14 
English
(Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

PASADENA, Calif. -- President Clinton this week will ask Congress to approve a nearly $3 billion spending increase to boost science and technology research -- money he says is essential for the U.S. to maintain its technological edge. 

The president announced his proposal Friday at the California Institute of Technology, one of the nation's premier research schools, and is expected to mention the technology initiative during his annual State of the Union address Thursday. 

Playing to a packed crowd in a Caltech auditorium, Mr. Clinton said the $2.8 billion in new spending would include a $1 billion increase in biomedical research for the National Institutes of Health and a $675 million increase for the National Science Foundation. Additional funding also would go to expand research in areas ranging from information technology to space exploration to the development of cleaner sources of energy. 

Several of the steps echo campaign proposals made by Vice President Al Gore, who long has been identified with the administration's efforts to promote research and technology. 

If approved by Congress, the new money would be designated for fiscal year 2001, which begins Oct. 1. 

Neal Lane, President Clinton's top science adviser, said the additional funding would go a long way toward pushing the nation toward the administration's goal of having government and private enterprise together invest 3% of the country's gross domestic product on research and development. He said that number is approaching 2.9%, up from 2.6% when the president was elected. 

Mr. Lane predicts strong bipartisan support for the administration's proposal, even as conservative Republicans call for tax cuts and less federal spending. The government spends about $40 billion a year to assist R&D, mainly through a collection of agencies and programs called the 21st Century Research Fund. 

"It's so clear from every study, every kind of data, economic analysis, that the federal investment in science and technology is about as good an investment as you can possibly make with the American taxpayers' money," Mr. Lane said. "So I think if there is any area of government where you can expect the two parties to come together, this is it." 

A Friday letter to the president from House Science Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R., Wis.) reflected the less-partisan atmosphere surrounding scientific issues. Mr. Sensenbrenner commended the White House for its "new emphasis on basic over applied research." He also said that in the recently adopted 2000 budget, "cooperation between Congress and the administration yielded many significant victories" in science funding. However, Mr. Sensenbrenner also warned the president against "budgetary game-playing" that he said had weakened some previous White House proposals by tying research increases to taxes Mr. Clinton wanted. 

Included in the proposed $2.8 billion increase is $497 million for a national nanotechnology initiative, an attempt to make machines and computers as small as molecules. Mr. Clinton said such research could lead to computers capable of storing the contents of the Library of Congress in a device the size of a sugar cube, or to the development of material 10 times stronger than steel but at a fraction of the weight. 

The proposed $1 billion increase for the National Institutes of Health would go to support research in areas such as diabetes, brain disorders, cancer and the development of an AIDS vaccine. The center's current budget is about $18 billion. 

The National Science Foundation would see the largest increase in its history, up 17% from its current $3.9 billion budget. 

In the runup to the administration's budget release next month, officials also confirmed plans to close the so-called "digital divide" by providing subsidies to help low-income families buy computers and get Internet access. 

In his Saturday radio address, Mr. Clinton proposed creating teams of Medicare-fraud fighters across the country as well as investing in new technologies to track abuse in the program. 

--- 

John D. McKinnon contributed to this article. 

Document j000000020010807dw1o001rk


More Like This

 Article 137 *******************    


Special Section/The Capitalist Century 

Inventing Tomorrow Today Sure, the future will be different. But who knows exactly how? These five young innovators have a clue. 

Nicholas Stein 
1,966 words 
6 March 2000
Fortune Magazine 
F-34+ 
Issue: March 6, 2000 Vol. 141 No. 5 Special 70th Anniversary Issue 
English
(Copyright 2000) 

During seminal historical moments, like the dawn of a new millennium, it is often tempting to imagine how our lives might be different ten, 20, even 50 years hence. It is a natural urge, and one easily satisfied by a few sage words from some forward-thinking think tank. In the weeks leading up to Y2K, we learned about biotech, nanotech, and dozens of other words ending in "tech." We heard possiblys, maybes, and almost certainlys. But the scientists and technologists working to transform these probabilities into realities remained, as ever, in the background. 

FORTUNE set out to find a few brave souls out there who weren't just talking about what the future might be like but were actually inventing it--people whose work today will transform radically the way we live our lives tomorrow. But there was one problem: Unlike the 1,500 or so professional members of the World Future Society, most of the brightest young innovators in science and technology don't really advertise. After a few hundred phone calls, we found them anyway. 

In a nondescript office building in New Jersey we discovered Pankaj Merchia, who combined his knowledge of medicine and computer science to create a device that may radically alter the practice of medicine. At the V.A. Hospital in New Orleans, we came upon Timothy Hammond, a kidney specialist who found solutions to his patients' problems in the unlikeliest of venues--outer space. In the bowels of NASA's Ames Research Center at Moffett Field, Calif., we unearthed K.R. Sridhar, whose invention may allow us to breathe on Mars--and in some other unfriendly places, like the middle of a raging fire. In Hawaii, we found another NASA affiliate, Lewis Pinault, who may one day help us navigate the legal and political quagmires associated with space exploration. A member of our group does come from one of the more famous bastions of futurethink, MIT's Media Lab. That's where we met Neil Gershenfeld, who is building brains for musical instruments, chairs, and other formerly inanimate objects. 

Each innovator is young, studious--and surprisingly modest. Perhaps they will change under the glare of the media spotlight. Perhaps they will take out an ad in Futurist magazine. We suspect that they won't. 

K.R. SRIDHAR: FINDING OXYGEN ON PLANET MARS 

"If the pioneers who landed on the East Coast had to load up their wagons with all the food, water, and air they needed to travel west, they would only have gotten as far as the Appalachians," jokes K.R. Sridhar, director of the Space Technologies Laboratory and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at the University of Arizona. "They had to learn to live off the land." Sridhar has spent the past ten years figuring out how we can do the same in space. 

Sridhar is at the forefront of the effort to adapt the environments of other planets to make them habitable. The key is breathing: How can we get good air to breathe in those hostile environments? Working with NASA's Johnson Research Center, Sridhar has developed the Oxygen Generator System (OGS). The device--a black dome the size of a grapefruit and weighing about two pounds--is designed to convert the carbon dioxide of Mars' atmosphere into oxygen, which could both sustain the lives of human explorers and serve as rocket fuel for return missions to Earth. The 2003 Surveyor Lander to Mars will test both and may also--courtesy of Sridhar's lab- -create drinking water, electricity, and heat. 

Sridhar's work has terrestrial applications as well. Within five years, he believes, the OGS could be worn by firefighters storming smoke-filled buildings, environmental workers containing toxic spills, soldiers in biological war zones, and emphysema sufferers, who may trade in cumbersome oxygen tanks for OGS fanny packs. 

PANKAJ MERCHIA: THE END OF DIAGNOSTIC ERRORS 

When the Clinton Administration recently announced it would spend $30 million to reduce medical errors, it may have imagined a future like this: Every time a doctor evaluates a patient, a few clicks on a customized Casio handheld computer--linked to a database compiled by Harvard and Johns Hopkins medical school faculty--gives him focused recommendations about what drug and dosage to prescribe, reactions with other medications, and other available treatments. The doctor can print the prescription on a special printer, so tiny that it plugs into the back of the PDA. When he drops the PDA into its cradle to recharge the battery, it also gets an update from the database. Thanks to this marriage of medicine and technology, the number of U.S. deaths (100,000) and serious injuries (one million-plus) attributed to medication errors drops by nine-tenths. 

That's exactly what Pankaj Merchia, a 26-year-old Harvard M.D. and computer science whiz, has dreamed up. Merchia graduated at 18 from Johns Hopkins with bachelor's degrees in biomedical engineering, electrical and computer engineering, and mathematics. After a year in India studying medicine and Eastern philosophy, he combined a medical degree at Harvard with doctoral work in computer science and medical informatics at MIT. He even spent a year in the health-care practice at McKinsey. 

His background seems perfectly choreographed for such an ambitious enterprise. He calls his device the MDPad. In conjunction with the medical center at Johns Hopkins, Merchia has applied for funding from pharmaceutical companies so that he can give away 100,000 MDPads to physicians over the next two years. He hopes to generate additional revenue by selling ads that will pop up on the MDPad screen and by charging fees for premium services to medical specialists. 

LEWIS PINAULT: DEVELOPING A LEGAL SYSTEM FOR SPACE 

A former management consultant at BCG, Gemini, and Coopers & Lybrand, Lewis Pinault has just written a book, "Consulting Demons," about his experience. He also holds a bachelor's degree in political science from MIT and a master's from the London School of Economics. So his talk of the legal and geopolitical implications of mining asteroids and of building settlements on Mars is not the rambling of a Trekkie. Establishing property rights and liability on the moon, asteroids, and planets in our solar system may just be the legal quandary of the future. 

Companies and governments are busy sending more and more communications satellites into orbit. Every launch increases the likelihood of a collision, and yet no law exists to divide up the space in which they travel--or to assign blame or damages should any impact occur. Satellites also provide visual details of the movements of troops and fishing boats, the location of forced labor camps, the probability of volcanic activity, and other crucial information. Despite industrial and governmental pressures to restrain or to release this data, no uniform agreements exist. All of which makes questions of the ownership of planets, asteroids, and the air above Earth seem slightly less esoteric. 

Pinault was a delegate to last summer's U.N. Conference on Space in Vienna. Despite having his studies partially financed by NASA, he advocates an internationalist perspective on space settlement rather than one focused mostly on protecting U.S. interests. An International Space Authority, similar to the U.N., could pool the funds of member states to allow for international space exploration. 

Pinault sees the moon as the first extraterrestrial settlement, with water and metals mined from asteroids as building materials. A moon settlement could then be used as an extraterrestrial way station for the exploration and colonization of Mars and other planets. 

NEIL GERSHENFELD: THE PERFECTION OF PAPERR 

As the leader of the Physics and Media Group at MIT's Media Lab, Neil Gershenfeld has made it his mission to invent technology that brings people together. He has developed computers that make car seats smart enough to know who is sitting on them, so that they don't deploy potentially lethal adult-sized airbags for young children. He has placed penny-sized computers in the bottoms of medication bottles so that they glow when it is time to take a pill, and also inform a doctor, via a network connection, when a prescription must be refilled. But what distinguishes Gershenfeld from many of his peers is his refusal to discard wonderful old technologies just because newer ones come along--one reason he's studying what makes those Stradivarius violins, which were built more than 300 years ago, really sing. 

In his book "When Things Start to Think," Gershenfeld discusses the technophile notion that we must choose between books and computers: "I was struck by how strange it is to replace paper with displays that are guaranteed to be bulkier, take more power, and look worse. If paper is such a good system, why not continue to use it?" The only advantage liquid-crystal panels have over paper, says Gershenfeld, is their ability to change. So instead of trying to build an LCD screen to look and function like paper, Gershenfeld and his Media Lab colleague Joe Jacobsen developed electronic paper and electronic ink. These charged, microencapsulated particles have the look and feel of the real thing, but tiny electrodes implanted in the paper can switch old words and images for new ones. Another invention, radio paper, is even more ingenious. A radio receiver imbedded in the paper and powered by a microscopic solar panel downloads data and changes the "ink" to something new. Imagine a newspaper that updates itself automatically and instantaneously. It might really be the perfection of paper. If it works, Gershenfeld will have pulled off the death of print as we know it--a murder we can all celebrate. 

TIMOTHY HAMMOND: GROWING ORGANS IN OUTER SPACE 

On the CV linked to his Website at Tulane's Environmental Astrobiology Center, Dr. Timothy Hammond lists his activities and interests: "Being beaten at one-on-one basketball by 14-year-old son; admiring 18-year-old daughter's new clothes when she's home, wondering where she is when she's not; walking the dogs." He forgot to indicate that he might one day be recognized for ending drug testing on animals, and for growing human organs in space. The Australian-born kidney specialist, transplant physician, and head of research at New Orleans' V.A. Hospital simply wanted to find a better way to repair the damaged kidneys of his patients. 

He found the answer in space. Tissue cells of kidneys and brains undergo developmental changes when the stresses to which they are exposed change. On Earth, technicians trying to create tissue cells can momentarily "suspend" growing cells above the pressure-filled culture in which they reside--but gravity eventually wins out. Hammond theorized that gravity-free space would reduce stress to zero, optimizing the environment for duplicating tissue cells. 

In 1997, Hammond's theory was tested aboard the space station Mir, where kidney cells extracted from rats in his lab were kept under weightless conditions for four months. A year later, on the space shuttle Columbia, the experiment was repeated with human cells. Implications: Space may be the place to develop small pieces of kidney tissue that could be used instead of animals when pharmaceutical companies test drugs. It may even be possible to grow entire human organs in space--and tailor them to recipients' genetic specifications. The understanding gained from space research can then be used to duplicate these experiments on Earth. Fine, says Hammond-- as long as all this stuff can someday help his patients. 

See also 17 accompanying stories pages F-1 through F-90 of same issue 

FIVE COLOR PHOTOS: PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID STRICK 


Document fortu00020010806dw360007z


More Like This

 Article 138 *******************    



Industrial Management: COMMUNICATIONS 

A BIG FUTURE FOR TINY BIRDS Satellites the size of a deck of cards may transform communications, defense, and astronomy 

By Alan Hall in New York 
1,411 words 
20 March 2000
Business Week 
130H 
Number 3673 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Russia's launch of the basketball-sized Sputnik I in 1957 stunned the world and ushered in the Space Age. But Sputnik was a behemoth compared with the two tiny satellites that sent their first signals back to Earth on Feb. 8. If Sputnik went ``beep,'' these tiny birds went ``chirp, chirp.'' Each one is smaller than a deck of cards and weighs less than half a pound. Yet the signals from these fledgling spacecraft, dubbed picosats, may herald another new era in communications and space research. 

The experimental spacecraft, the tiniest ever placed in orbit, were built by Aerospace Corp. in El Segundo, Calif., for a consortium funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). Connected by a gossamer tether to prevent them from drifting apart, the two picosats talked to each other for a week--and to a third on the ground, mounted in the center of a dish antenna at SRI International in Menlo Park, Calif. Then the AA batteries that were the only source of power gave out. Their low-power radios were adapted from ordinary cordless phones. So the signals could be picked up only when SRI's big data-comm dish was aimed squarely at the satellites. To help track the pair, the tether contains gold wires, which return a strong radar echo. 

Everything went so smoothly that today's huge, multibillion-dollar satellites could be getting lots of company in the not-too-distant future. Aerospace executives and others envision a chorus of inexpensive, mass-produced spacecraft that can be spewed from motherships on demand--and even soar off into deep space. ``They are a harbinger of all kinds of miniature satellites,'' says Ernest Y. Robinson, a top engineer at Aerospace and co-author of a seminal paper that launched the concept of tiny spacecraft at a meeting of the International Astronautical Federation Congress in 1993. Since then, satellites have come to be classified by weight--picosats tipping the scales at less than 1 kilogram, or 2.2 pounds, for example (page 130J). 

Packed into a mother satellite constructed by Stanford University space-engineering students, the picosats were lofted on a four-stage booster from Vandenberg Air Force Base on Jan. 26. The orbiting twins epitomize NASA's goal of building spacecraft that are smaller, lighter, and cheaper. And they are the closest thing yet to a satellite-on-a-chip. 

Picosats rely on an advanced technology known as MEMS, for microelectromechanical systems. These systems integrate semiconductor circuits and minuscule mechanical devices carved from wafers of silicon. Earthbound examples of MEMS include air-bag release triggers in cars and tiny squirt-gun valves in ink-jet printer heads. 

The primary goal of the present mission is to test various MEMS devices designed to be switched on and off remotely, via radio commands from the ground or a mothersat. This is a crucial step in demonstrating that MEMS chips are reliable enough to replace the bulky electronics boxes now used in satellites for navigation and orbital control, sensing, and computation. Last July the space shuttle Columbia carried into orbit a package of some 30 MEMS satellite components made by Rockwell Science Center in Thousand Oaks, Calif., including sensors and gyroscope controls. The tiny devices were closely monitored, and their performance was compared with that of the shuttle's own instruments. They passed with flying colors, leading to the current experiment. MINIATURE THRUSTERS. Last year's shuttle mission was also the first test in space of a novel propulsion system designed to allow tiny satellites to maneuver in orbit. The device, developed by TRW, Aerospace, and California Institute of Technology under a $3.5 million DARPA contract, literally puts thousands of tiny rockets on a computer chip. Each thruster is a pinhead-size silicon box filled with a propellant. On command, microscopic heating elements in the boxes ignite the propellant. The burning fuel bursts through the thin outer face of the box, providing a tiny rocket-like thrust. Although each MEMS rocket can be used only once, arrays of thousands of thrusters might keep a small satellite on course for several years. Engineers estimate that almost a million thrusters could be packed into an area of just 16 square inches. 

The thrusters will also be used to ``de-orbit'' little satellites at the end of their useful lives. That's so they won't add to the space junk already in orbit--floating debris that can pose a collision hazard. ``That's a problem you have to address from Day One,'' says Siegfried Janson, an Aerospace scientist who invented the term nanosatellite. 

When all MEMS components have been checked and rechecked and finally judged ``space worthy,'' engineers intend to combine them in slightly larger satellites. These nanosat-size birds would be big enough to do really useful work in space and curb the need for costly monsters as big as cars. The mighty mites would be powered by solar cells and have the navigational skills to roam around space much more freely. 

That's what appeals to the Defense Dept. Military planners and intelligence chiefs see great potential for nanosat spies. Mother birds packed with various types of special-purpose nanosats could be parked in orbit until their chicks are needed. Or it might be possible to shoot nanosats into low-earth orbit from a cannon or from high-flying jet planes. Either way, the Pentagon could quickly put a swarm of satellites over tomorrow's Kosovo, avoiding the protracted countdown required to launch a big rocket. The Lilliputian spies would provide a bird's-eye view of a battlefield--including details that might be missed by spy sats at much higher perches. 

But Robinson and Janson see many other uses. A few small sats could pick up messages as they pass over one point on the globe, then download them to receivers at other locations. Or they could imitate, on the cheap, the Teledesic concept of a globe-circling constellation, with at least one sat always overhead. Janson says nanosats in contact with 10-meter-diameter ground antennas could handle data at the rate of 1 megabit a second. ``One day we may see nanosatellite clusters used for Internet-in-the-sky applications,'' he says. PONY EXPRESS. Scientific applications also abound. For astronomers, an array of nanosats could form a giant radio telescope in space that would dwarf ones on earth. Although nanosatellites will be limited to carrying optic systems with lenses no bigger than about 10 centimeters in diameter, that's sufficient to provide a ground resolution in the tens of meters. Suddenly, it could be affordable to continuously monitor agricultural, mineral, and water resources. 

For its part, NASA already is planning to use nanosats to study the interaction of the earth's magnetic field with charged particles from the sun. In addition, future planetary probes might create a Pony Express relay back to Mother Earth by dropping off a trail of nansosats as they plunge into space. That would reduce the onboard power needed for distant probes to send reports back to earth, freeing up space for additional scientific instruments. 

Scientists predict that the first full-fledged military and commercial nanosats will zip through the heavens in 8 to 10 years. It could happen sooner, thanks to the recent boost from President Clinton. His 2001 budget request includes an 84% increase in nanotechnology funding, with the Pentagon slated to get $110 million for projects such as MEMS--a 57% boost over its current allowance. 

So construction of the huge International Space Station continues, and plans are still being drawn up for human bases on the moon and Mars. But a large part of the future may lie with the lightweights--minuscule spacecraft that will fit in an astronaut's pocket. 


Little Giants
The electronics industry is blazing new trails in space. As satellites shrink,
scientists see a wide range of sizes coming into use.
SIZE                WEIGHT/KG
PICOSATELLITE       UNDER 1
NANOSATELLITE       1-10
MICROSATELLITE      10-100
SMALL SAT           100-1,000
STANDARD SAT        OVER 1,000


Photograph: PICOSATS Aerospace execs envision a fleet of inexpensive, mass-produced spacecraft that could be spewed from motherships Photograph: POWERHOUSE An array of nanosats could be parked over the globe to assure uninterrupted phone and data flows 


Document bw00000020010804dw3k0017n


More Like This

 Article 139 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

WILL OXYGEN TAKE THE AIR OUT OF NANOTUBES? 

By Neil Gross EDITED BY ELLEN LICKING 
265 words 
20 March 2000
Business Week 
81 
Number 3673 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

For many years, scientists have thought tiny, supertough molecules known as carbon nanotubes would be the ideal building blocks of next-generation microdevices such as semiconductors, which will be orders of magnitude smaller than today's electronic components. But the more scientists learn about the properties of nanotubes, the harder it is to predict exactly how they can be used. 

In the Mar. 10 issue of Science, researchers at the University of California at Berkeley and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory report that single-walled carbon nanotubes are extremely sensitive to oxygen. That means that if they are ever used in electronic components, the devices may not perform well in normal, nonvacuum environments. ``There could be problems if you think of these as room-temperature devices,'' says Berkeley theoretical physicist Marvin Cohen, who collaborated with the authors of the report. Cohen predicts the nanotubes' sensitivity to oxygen and other gases may earn them a role in various new types of sensors. 

But even if gas sensitivity or other properties foil scientists' attempts to construct defect-free carbon nanotubes, the whole architecture for chips built on the atomic scale may be so different that defects in individual elements won't matter much. ``If we spend all our time making things perfect at the nano level, nobody will ever make any money,'' says Meyya Meyyappan, senior scientist for nanotechnology at the NASA Ames Research Center. ``There are going to be defects, and we must learn to get along with them.'' 

Document bw00000020010804dw3k001ay


More Like This

 Article 140 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

A NEW WAY TO BRING COLOR TO LEDs? 

EDITED BY ELLEN LICKING 
213 words 
3 April 2000
Business Week 
93 
Number 3675 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

THREE YEARS AGO, PAUL Alivisatos and a team of researchers from the University of California at Berkeley built a single-electron transistor using microscopic, chemically pure nanocrystals, dubbed ``quantum dots.'' Because of their small size--about a billionth of a meter--the dots have an unusual property: When zapped by a laser, the crystals emit different colors depending on their size. A two-nanometer dot glows green, while a five-nanometer dot radiates red. The team envisioned using the dots in electronic devices such as light-emitting diodes (LEDs). There was just one snag: The light emitted from a single quantum dot is too dim to be seen. 

Alivisatos may have a solution to that problem. In work published Mar. 2 in Nature, he describes how to grow nano-rods of precise lengths and diameters from his individual dots. With the right chemistry, these quantum rods line up in neat rows, generating different colors based on the width of the rods. Based on preliminary experiments, Alivisatos believes the rods should be 20 times more powerful than the dots. That probably isn't enough for use in LEDs, but ``it's a step in the right direction,'' he says. 

Document bw00000020010804dw43001na


More Like This

 Article 141 *******************    



Why Things Don't Work: The Exclusive GGG Interview 

Owen Edwards and Rodes Fishburne 
1,467 words 
3 April 2000
Forbes ASAP 
161 
Volume ; Issue 
English
Copyright 2000 Forbes Inc. 

We've long suspected he existed, some maker of megamischief with access to the primo players in high tech. How else can we explain a history of astonishing blunders made by otherwise brilliant minds? Somebody was giving the business elite very bad advice...and they were taking it. There were occasional, tantalizing references, too, like the casual aside at Herb Allan's media conference in 1988, when venture capitalist John Doerr muttered cryptically, "Triple G convinced me that pen-based computing is the next big thing." 

Triple G turned up at Davos in 1992. When a heavyset man wearing a cheap suit and an angry visage huddled with George Soros, strongly advising him to make big investments in Russia, we suspected something was awry. And his cuff links bore the monogram GGG. 

By then rumors were rife of a dark force in technology. New York Times tech watcher John Markoff was the first to pick up the scent again: He'd seen John Sculley at an Oregon fishing lodge deep in conversation with a stranger right before Sculley booted Steve Jobs from Apple's board. 

Yet it wasn't until this year, at the Nano, Nano, Nano 2000 convention, that the elusive myth was finally pinned down. Forbes ASAP editors Owen Edwards and Rodes Fishburne, dazed by a mind-numbing speech about nanotechnology capable of driving tapeworms out of pet cocker spaniels, spotted a man sitting in front of them with the telltale monogrammed cuff links: GGG. Astonishingly, the force behind a thousand farces agreed to an interview.ASAP: We've heard about you for years, but no one in the press has ever met you. How do you keep such a low profile? 

GGG: Money helps. [Laughs] You can hire people to make you bigger than you are, like my friend the Trumpster, or you can hire people to make you smaller than you really are. Being well known wouldn't help me in my business. 

ASAP: And just what is your business? 

GGG: Well, actually, it's none of your business. But let's just say I give advice. 

ASAP: Some people say your advice is more often bad than good. 

GGG: "Bad" and "good" are such naive distinctions in the postmodern age. What really matters in the end, I'm sure you'll agree, is that one's advice should be good for oneself. 

ASAP: Then perhaps you'll give us some advice. What trends do you think will continue to power the tech industry? Will Moore's Law continue to hold? 

GGG: Moore's Law has been accidentally right for a while. Gordy's a real sweetheart, but let's face it, he came up with that cockamamy law after a three-martini lunch. Trust me, he's still stunned that it actually worked out. 

ASAP: Gordon Moore, the founder of Intel, is the wealthiest man in California. Surely the man is entitled to some credit. 

GGG [with a superior smirk]: Things would have doubled every year and a half or so whether or not Gordy had noticed it. We don't give Newton credit because apples fall out of trees, do we? Everything grows--mushrooms, the number of idiots in business, even this damned wart on my thumb. Here, take a look... 

ASAP: If Moore's Law isn't driving the economics of technology, what is? 

GGG: Have you heard of Henry Hotchkiss? He's working on a really brilliant law...and I'm working on Hotch. 

ASAP: Working? 

GGG: Getting him ready for launch, in a manner of speaking. You'll hear more about him soon enough. 

ASAP: You seem so sure of that. 

GGG: Hotchkiss is one of those people whom the venerable George Gilder is going to "happen" to discover. I'm very fond of Georgie's capacity to believe in good luck when he imagines he's stumbled upon something big. Charming, really. 

ASAP: What is Hotchkiss' Law? 

GGG: It's quite simple, as all of the best laws are. Easy for you journalists to remember, too. Isn't that a nice coincidence? [Laughs] Hotchkiss' Law is the law of undiminishing returns: 0 + 0 = Infinite Riches. 

ASAP: Sounds like an impossibility. How would such a thing ever be applied? 

GGG: My dear boys...what do you think a 12,000 stock market is! Ever heard of e-commerce? The law of undiminishing returns is at work right now, and it's magical, like any true myth. My old friend Jumpin' John Doerr talks about the greatest creation of wealth in history, and Hotchkiss' Law is the greatest blower of bubbles ever imagined. Right now, the entire U.S. economy is based on it. [Laughs sinisterly]ASAP: It's been rumored that you've been involved with some of the major tech debacles of the last 20 years. 

GGG [with raised eyebrow]: I tend to define "debacle" by whether or not my own finances suffer. But why don't you give me some examples of these so-called debacles? 

ASAP: Let's see, first there was the catastrophic blunder by IBM to let Microsoft have control of the operating system, then Doerr's Go Corporation blunder. The common denominator seems to be that you were a key adviser in each of these situations. 

GGG: Your point? 

ASAP: Well, how can you be so consistently wrong? 

GGG: Wrong? Old sport, you don't seem to get it. According to the rules of my particular game, wrong is right. Let's just say that I'm amused by the comic potential of bad advice happening to good people. 

ASAP: What's your proudest accomplishment? 

GGG: There have been so many. Walk back through the landscape of the past decade in high tech and you'll see the rubble. 

ASAP: Pick just one. 

GGG: Right now, I'm most proud of Jeffrey, my current work in progress. 

ASAP: Jeffrey? 

GGG: Bezos. No doubt you've heard of him, and that little company I like to call Amazin'.com. 

ASAP: By "work in progress," surely you don't mean... 

GGG: What I mean is that I've had quite a lot to do with both the man and his enterprise. But unlike, for instance, ol' George, where I had an actual person to work with--gilding the Gilder, in a manner of speaking--with Jeff I started from scratch. Think about it. Does that look like the face of a man who could revolutionize retail marketing? No, it looks like the face of a man who serves you a Frostee Freeze beside the highway, which, by the way, is where I first came upon him. 

ASAP: Jeffrey Bezos, CEO of Amazon, is originally from Texas. As we all know, he left his investment banking job in New York City, drove across the country, and tapped out the business plan for his new venture on a laptop computer. 

GGG: A lovely biography, I modestly admit, but invented--part of the Horatio Algebra myth investors love. 

ASAP: Are you saying Bezos and Amazon are fictions? 

GGG: No, not at all. In fact, they are the very real incarnations of 0 + 0 = Infinite Riches. Zero profits plus zero likelihood of profits equals a market cap of billions. Exquisite, if I do say so myself. 

ASAP: Let's just say, for the sake of argument, that we believe you. Since you seem to thrive on disasters brought on by your sinister advice to others, this would be inconsistent with your usual pattern. Amazon is a tremendous success. 

GGG: Yes, it's lovely, isn't it? And far be it from me to suggest that it won't just go on and on, losing money, firing staff, and still delighting investors only too willing to ignore the most basic business tenets. The potential for amusement in this one is huge. But frankly, there are still some pieces of the puzzle to be put in place before the fun really begins. I shouldn't tell you this, but...At this point, the conversation was interrupted by GGG's cell phone ringing. He answered the call, and, in a hearty voice, said into the phone, "Buffster, old boy, how goes the battle? Nice move getting that joker at Coke to step down. Now look, Warren, you've been a real fox holding out on tech investing. But if you still value my advice, I think it's time to get aboard the dot-com juggernaut. And if I were you, I'd make my first big buy in..." At this point, he put his hand over the receiver and waved us off. "Sorry, fellas, but this is a private conversation. We'll talk again." 

Document fb00000020011213dw430003e


More Like This

 Article 142 *******************    



Editorials 

THE ECONOMY: A HIGHER SAFE SPEED LIMIT 

870 words 
10 April 2000
Business Week 
242 
Number 3676 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Defying first-of-the-year predictions and standard economic convention, the American economy races on. Despite five Federal Reserve rate increases, consumers are spending like crazy, corporations are investing like mad, stock indexes are bumping new highs, profits are soaring, and inflation remains only a troublesome worry, not a major reality. What the heck is going on? Welcome to the debate on New Economy safe speed limits, Part Two. 

Part One began in 1995 and ended last year when the Fed and most economists concluded that the U.S. economy could grow at 3% to 3 1/2% annually without inflation, significantly higher than the 2% to 2 1/2% of previous decades. But recent data show that the potential growth rate may be even higher--perhaps 3 3/4% to 4 1/2%--and policymakers, investors, and businesspeople alike are debating again how fast is fast. We are cautiously optimistic that we can notch up the noninflationary growth rate once more. But we are experiencing what Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers calls ``paradigm uncertainty.'' 

The case for a still higher safe speed limit rests on the possibility that information technology may be changing the economy far more than anyone imagined even a year or two ago. Sun Microsystems Inc. President and Chief Operating Officer Edward J. Zander recently said at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, that we are only ``in the third year of a 10-to-15-year technology cycle.'' He may be right for two reasons. Historically, new technologies are introduced into an economy by ones or twos, changing it modestly and slowly. Think plastics. Sometimes, they have little impact. Think nuclear energy. Once or twice a century, a transforming event takes place. 

This is the case with information technology. IT is generating a cascading effect as it spills over from one innovation to another, pouring a succession of products and services into the marketplace. This changes everything in ways that are outside the prevailing paradigm. The microchip has set off a cascade, generating computers, the Internet, cell phones, the mobile Net, and biotechnology. Nanotechnology may soon follow. 

A chart by W. Michael Cox, chief economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, and Richard Alm illustrates the trend. Adapted from their book Myths of Rich & Poor, the trend lines show that the cascade is actually picking up speed. Information technologies are diffusing into corporations and households at an ever faster rate. This, in turn, is generating continuous noninflationary growth. The reason is simple: falling prices. All technological revolutions produce falling prices, but the magnitude and speed of the IT revolution is unprecedented. It has made innovations more affordable to middle-class families at a faster rate than before (www.dallasfed.org). 

The chart compares the current wave of innovation to the last one. Lest we forget, before the Information Age, there was the Age of Electricity, as Joseph Schumpeter called it in Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy. The previous technology cascade came off electricity, which spawned autos, airplanes, telephones, refrigeration, and the radio. But it took 35 years from when cars were invented for a quarter of all U.S. households to buy one, 39 years to get a telephone, 59 years to have air conditioning, and 23 years to get a radio. Prices for these new products declined over time, but rather slowly. In contrast, it took only 18 years from the invention of the PC for a quarter of U.S. households to buy one, 13 years for a cell phone, and seven years to get on the Internet. 

There is plenty of controversy over just when each innovation was really ``invented'' and whether this round of innovations is being diffused faster than the previous one. Cox, for example, chooses the invention of the World Wide Web as his starting point for the Internet. He picks Edison's light bulb and his building of electric generating plants as the beginning for electricity. Others disagree with the timing. Nevertheless, the current cascade ripples on, deflating the economy as it moves. 

But this doesn't occur evenly and everywhere. In cases where you don't know the true economic speed limit, it makes less sense to look at the speedometer than out the car window. You can't tell whether the growth rate is too fast just by measuring it against the past. Looking directly at the data can provide early warning signs of inflation. There are some out there already. Margin debt is exploding at a 200% annual rate. Consumer debt is soaring. Wage pressures are building. The current account trade deficit is at a record high. And it may be that too much money is being thrown at the tech boom. Some dot-com entrepreneurs ``are spending venture-capital money like they're spending their parents' allowance,'' said Harvard Business School professor Rosabeth Moss Kanter recently in Davos. 

Given the overheated growth in late 1999, the Fed has every reason to tap the brakes. But it should resist the temptation to throttle growth below 4% or so, a new speed limit that now seems safe. 

Illustration: Chart: THE AMAZING TECHNOLOGY CASCADE ALBERTO MENA/BW 


Document bw00000020010804dw4a001y0


More Like This

 Article 143 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

DID LIFE BEGIN WITH BUCKYBALLS? 

EDITED BY CATHERINE ARNST By Otis Port 
217 words 
10 April 2000
Business Week 
150 
Number 3676 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

The galaxy may be constantly sowing the seeds of life on planets, both on our earth and those circling distant suns. A team headed by Luann Becker, a University of Hawaii geochemist, has found gases that arrived from space inside so-called buckyballs, or spherical clusters of carbon atoms. The researchers report their discovery in the Mar. 21 issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 

Last July, Becker's group dug out buckyballs embedded in a meteorite that landed in Mexico 30 years ago and speculated that the clusters could transport gases across space. Since then, the team has been analyzing buckyballs from other space objects that fell in Denmark, New Zealand, and North America. Wherever they looked, they turned up helium unlike any helium found naturally on earth. 

But the cosmos isn't always gentle in delivering building-block atoms such as carbon and helium. Some of the gas-bearing buckyballs were found in debris from giant asteroids. Many scientists believe that when asteroids hit a planet they can trigger mass extinctions--such as the disappearance of dinosaurs 65 million years ago. Still, on any planet where conditions are suitable for life, the basic ingredients probably arrived long ago. 

Document bw00000020010804dw4a0020q


More Like This

 Article 144 *******************    



Industrial Monitor 

MOLECULES THAT PLAY TRAFFIC COP 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
219 words 
17 April 2000
Business Week 
36F 
Number 3677 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Tougher plastics for less money--that's one potential application of a new nanoscale technique for building polymers. It's a radically different way to change the physical properties of so-called monomers such as styrene, the raw material for polystyrene. 

This inexpensive plastic is used to make toys and foam-plastic cups. Trouble is, it's not very sturdy. So when more durability is needed--say, for TV cabinets--the styrene is combined with other monomers. 

Now, researchers at Northwestern University, led by materials scientist Samuel I. Stupp, have designed ultrathin molecules to act as traffic cops. They direct the styrene molecules to form ranks--to make internal structures that aren't natural. Stupp's ``dendron rodcoil'' molecules are very long and one-thousandth as thick as a human hair. Adding just 1% by weight to styrene causes a dramatic physical transformation--the formation of self-reinforcing internal structures. 

Considerable work remains to be done before the traffic-cop molecules will be ready for commercial duty. But the Northwestern team believes that it has uncovered a new way to tailor plastics--and not just styrene. Stupp told the recent annual meeting of the American Chemical Society that the technique has already been used to modify other monomers. 

Document bw00000020010804dw4h0022s


More Like This

 Article 145 *******************    



Readers Report 

Is the IMF at Fault--Or Its Clients? 

459 words 
15 May 2000
Business Week 
20 
Number 3681 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Regarding the World Bank/International Monetary Fund meetings and accompanying protests (``Backlash: Behind the anxiety over globalization,'' Cover Story, Apr. 24): It seems to me that some of the protests are misdirected. While I agree that these organizations need reform in their approach to development issues, a real problem in achieving any progress is the unwillingness of leaders in most recipient countries to address fundamental reform in their own societies. These include high taxation levels, high government wages, the lack of fair business and marketing regulations, etc. No amount of benign donor assistance will change these basic social and economic issues. 

Robert W. Resseguie 

Arlington, Va. 

The Apr. 24 cover story is immensely one-sided. Granted, the majority of your readers live in the U.S., but wouldn't they want to know about comparable workers in Mexico and other countries? Myself and several fellow divinity students visited the border region in Texas and northern Mexico over spring break. We toured the grounds of factories owned by Seagate, Converse, General Electric, and others. Yes, jobs have been created, but the plants employ people at wages that cannot sustain life as it would be defined by U.S. citizens. 

Each family we visited lived in a hut with walls built from forklift pallets and sealed with sheets and garbage bags. The floors were mud and the one bed held the parents and their children. Children were scouring a nearby dump for food and items to sell on the street. NAFTA has passed the test of business interests but not human or environmental rights. 

Peter Jones 

Brite Divinity School 

Fort Worth, Tex. 

I read with dismay your editorial ``What's behind the global backlash?'' (Editorials, Apr. 24). You describe opponents of globalization as technophobes for whom ``science and innovation are seen...as threats, not solutions.'' The misuse of technology is not a movement of reactionary Luddites--the concern exists for many such as myself with technical backgrounds who recognize technology's ability to improve our lives. Yet, 21st-century technologies such as genetics, nanotechnology, and robotics are so powerful that they can spawn whole new classes of abuses. We must approach technology with cautious critical judgment. 

Rafael Reyes 

San Francisco, Calif. 

I am dismayed that while you report being ``startled'' by the figures revealed by the BUSINESS WEEK poll on globalization, you appear unable to acknowledge the breadth of such backlash sentiment. You point out that the environment is a high priority among the young, students, and high-tech workers. I think we can include nonstudents, workers in the Old Economy, and people of all ages. Environmental issues are here to stay as a top priority. 

John Kershner 

Merry Point, Va. 

Document bw00000020010804dw5f0012b


More Like This

 Article 146 *******************    



Industry Monitor 

A CHIP THE SIZE OF A PINHEAD? 

EDITED BY ADAM ASTON 
451 words 
15 May 2000
Business Week 
38B 
Number 3681 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

On tomorrow's chips, transistors could come in the shape of carbon nanotubes--tiny, bacteria-size clumps of atoms. While researchers have been suggesting this for years, two new university projects indicate that carbon nanotechnology is getting set to move from laboratories to factories. 

Materials-science researchers at the University of California at Berkeley have found a clever way to make nano-tubes into on/off switches. Such transistors could pave the way to nanotube circuits on futuristic chips the size of a pinhead. The basic idea is deceptively simple: Make an X with two nanotubes. Getting the nano X to work like a switch took some jiggering, though. That's because nanotubes are slippery buggers--minute changes can produce huge shifts in their electrical properties. 

Finding ways to stabilize the characteristics of carbon nanotubes is a focus at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In the Apr. 21 issue of Science, a multidisciplinary team reports that a particular catalyst used to create nanotubes seems to tip the balance toward their behaving more like a metal than an insulator. As the production methods are refined, it may be possible to crank out nanotubes with stable, predictable properties. 


AND THE SHINGO GOES TO...
Considered the Nobel prize of manufacturing, the Shingo Prize for Excellence
in Manufacturing was awarded to eight factories in April. Named after Shigeo
Shingo, a pioneer of just-in-time production techniques, the awards single out
sites that have achieved dramatic performance improvements thanks to the
application of JIT strategies. This year's winners:
BAXTER HEALTHCARE
Production of intravenous and dialysis solutions are nearly perfect at
Baxter's North Cove (N.C.) facility.
FREUDENBERG-NOK
Since 1995, the maker of O-ring gaskets has improved on-time delivery to 99.3%
at its plant in LaGrange, Ga.
DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS
Won one prize for a Saginaw (Mich.) steering systems plant where it rearranged
81% of the shop floor to improve material flow. And in Matamoros, Mexico, not
a single lost day was recorded after 7.7 million work-hours in 1999.
GRUPO CYDSA
Achieved a 74% quality cost reduction over the past five years at its
polyvinyl chloride resin plant near Mexico City.
LOCKHEED MARTIN
Cut the cost of an F-16 by 38% over five years at its plant in Fort Worth,
Tex.
FORD
Achieved 100% on-time delivery of its V-8 and V-10 engines in 1999 from its
Windsor Engine Plant in Ontario, Canada.
LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES
At its Mt. Olive (N.J.) wireless center, product-development time, cost of
goods, and defects have been cut more than 50% since 1996.


Document bw00000020010804dw5f0012u


More Like This

 Article 147 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
246 words 
22 May 2000
Business Week 
144 
No. 3682 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- Tiny polymeric nanoparticles that behave like viruses may lead to a safer form of gene therapy. Developed by scientists at Washington University in St. Louis, the particles are roughly one-billionth of a meter in size--and are designed to evade the body's immune system. Called knedels because they resemble Polish dumplings, these teensy tidbits are filled with genes or proteins. To ferry this cargo to the right place in the body, the knedels are tagged with a special protein that docks only on specific cells, just like a virus. 

-- NASA is developing a new rocket engine that could slash the cost of putting payloads into orbit. It uses a spark plug to ignite hydrogen fuel in a skinny ``cylinder'' about 4 inches long. That explosion is channeled into a fatter, 3-foot-long tube, igniting more propellant. Clusters of such spark-plug engines would be much simpler than today's engines--and lighter. Weight is the major hurdle to building reusable rockets that could cut launch costs by 90%. 

-- Paralyzed people may not need to move a muscle to control the TV or stereo or answer the phone. They'll just wish it to happen. Jessica D. Bayliss, a computer science graduate student at the University of Rochester in New York, has developed software that interprets brain signals and turns them into control signals. Eventually, quadriplegics may be able to drive a wheelchair--or a car. 

Document bw00000020010804dw5m001bd


More Like This

 Article 148 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

TO CATCH A FIBER-OPTIC SPY, LOOK AT A SINGLE PHOTON 

By Otis Port EDITED BY ELLEN LICKING 
274 words 
29 May 2000
Business Week 
107 
Number 3683 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

ABSOLUTE SECURITY FOR e-mail and other communications flowing over fiber-optic networks is almost at hand. Protecting traffic routed via telecom satellites could take a bit longer, but also seems attainable, says Andrew J. Shields, a senior scientist at Toshiba Research Europe Ltd. (TREL), the Cambridge (England) research arm of Japan's Toshiba Corp. On May 10, at the Conference on Lasers & Electro-Optics in San Francisco, Shields revealed that his team at TREL has developed a chip that can detect individual photons, or particles, of light. 

The key to this remarkable feat is a photosensor covered with so-called quantum dots--tiny semiconductor domes just 30 nanometers wide. (The diameter of a human hair is roughly 100,000 nanometers.) Since the chip is able to detect single photons, it can protect information with quantum cryptography. Here's how that works: According to the laws of quantum physics, anything that tampers with a single photon alters its properties irreversibly. So, should anyone eavesdrop on information carried by a stream of individual photons, an immediate change would be apparent to the legitimate recipient. By inspecting each photon as it arrives, a recipient could spot any trouble en route--and alert the sender to stop transmitting. 

``Despite the exotic name, quantum cryptography is not as distant a prospect as you might think,'' says Shields. For terrestrial fiber-optic applications, ``we're aiming for commercialization of the detector in three years.'' 

By about 2005, quantum physics could also be standing guard over satellite communications. 

Document bw00000020010804dw5t001la


More Like This

 Article 149 *******************    



Business Brief -- ALTAIR INTERNATIONAL INC.: PaineWebber Set to Consult On Strategic Alternatives 

134 words 
13 July 2000
The Wall Street Journal 
B2 
English
(Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Altair International Inc. said it hired investment bankers at PaineWebber Group Inc., a move that comes amid slumping stock prices for the chemicals-technology concern. After hitting a 52-week high of $9.4688 on March 3 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, shares fell to $2.75 late last month. The Cody, Wyo., company, which develops nanocrystalline materials used in items such as cosmetics and fuel cells, said PaineWebber would assist the company in exploring "strategic alternatives," among them alliances, financing, mergers and acquisitions. "The company's not for sale," said William Long, Altair's president. "We're talking about having an investment banker to support and help us." In 4 p.m. Nasdaq trading, Altair shares were unchanged at $3.375. 

Document j000000020010807dw7d00hps


More Like This

 Article 150 *******************    



Business Week e.biz: MANAGEMENT 

The Joy of Questioning 

By Peter Burrows 
658 words 
24 July 2000
Business Week 
EB42 
Number 3691 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

It was a bona fide mood killer. On May 15, the 100 or so chief technology officers at San Francisco's Palace Hotel were flying high. They spent the morning at a high-tech conference getting jazzed about how they could help their companies cash in on the limitless wealth-making potential of the Internet. Then Bill Joy took the stage. The Sun Microsystems Inc. chief scientist used his lunchtime keynote to lay out his view of technology: He fears that rapid high-tech advances could lead to man-made electronic and biological scourges--and the possible extinction of the human race by mid-century. For most of the speech, the audience sat in respectful silence. Then Joy gave a sense of what the future could hold by reading a long description of a horrific plague that wiped out much of medieval Greece. Nervous chuckles began to break the uncomfortable silence. 

Joy is a surprising candidate to be making such dire warnings. After all, he has helped shape Sun's vision of superfast computers zipping all manner of digital transactions along the Net. And, he admits, it's computers from Sun and others that will make possible the scientific advances he fears. Still, no one at Sun is trying to talk Joy down from his high-tech bully pulpit. ``The concept took me by surprise,'' admits Sun CEO Scott G. McNealy. ``A lot of people think Bill is shooting the golden goose. But hey, I've got kids, too, and Bill's [discussing his views] in a very prudent, responsible way. He's not some lunatic. He's not a prophet of doom.'' Adds Melvin Schwartz, a Nobel prize winner for physics in 1988: ``He's thinking about the things that should be thought about. What sounds wild today won't be in 20 to 30 years.'' 

Indeed, Joy says he's out to shake the mindset that technology offers boundless good. Since publishing an article in Wired magazine last April entitled ``Why the Future Doesn't Need Us,'' the 45-year-old Joy has been spending a third of his time on his latest concern. Discoveries in genetic engineering, robotics, and molecular-level engineering (nanotechnology) will soon make it possible for terrorists to unleash mayhem far more dangerous than the nuclear threat, he says. ``These technologies are going to create a quadrillion dollars of wealth in the next century,'' says Joy. ``But we do have to deal with the risks. The future is rushing at us at incredible speed, and people just haven't thought it through.'' 

There have been plenty of doomsayers in the past, but few have Joy's credentials. In 1976, as a graduate student, Joy created a version of the Unix operating system that is the standard for most Web sites. In 1982, he co-founded Sun, and was a driving force behind its Java software. These days, Joy is working on new technology to make computers resistant to software bugs. 

Joy is by no means turning his back on the Information Society that has made him rich. He says he's simply trying to start a debate. He suggests that companies exploring planet-threatening technologies pay high insurance premiums to discourage them from simply dabbling in such technology. Joy fears the only answer could be one that appalls scientists--including himself: put an end to the spirit of unfettered freedom of scientific inquiry. Lewis M. Branscomb, IBM's former chief scientist and a professor emeritus at Harvard University, credits Joy with raising important issues, but cautions that ``once the politicians are allowed to start censoring `dangerous knowledge,' we will lose both our democracy and our ability to understand how to manage our future.'' For Joy, the debate is just beginning. 

Photograph: Sun chief scientist Joy: Trying to shake the mindset that technology offers only boundless good PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CARDIN 


Document bw00000020010804dw7o002vz


More Like This

 Article 151 *******************    



Technology Journal 

Quantum Computers Aren't Just Theoretical 

By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
1,151 words 
17 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal 
B6 
English
(Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Think your brand-new personal computer is hot stuff? Just wait. Tomorrow's computers may achieve yet unimagined speeds by figuring out all possible solutions to a calculation simultaneously. 

That, at least, is the dream of "quantum computing," a new but active field of research in which scientists hope to exploit weird properties of matter at tiny dimensions to power an entirely new type of computing device. 

Quantum computers are still laboratory curiosities. Many, in fact, consist of little more than a thimble full of liquid suspended inside a nuclear scanning device. But a series of obstacles have been overcome, to the point that some researchers have started to envision practical quantum computers. 

"There are no show stoppers anymore," says Nabil Amer, who manages quantum-information research at International Business Machines Corp. 

Earlier this week, an IBM team led by physicist Isaac Chuang demonstrated a quantum system that was able to solve a mathematical problem known as "order finding," which establishes how long it takes a given mathematical function to cycle back to its starting point. The quantum machine, with five computing elements called "qubits," took just one step to solve the order-finding problem; traditional computers require several steps to do so. 

Not bad for a technique once considered little more than a theoretical novelty. Back in 1981, the celebrated physicist Richard Feynman established theoretically that any physical system could be simulated on a quantum computer. At the time, though, no one could even begin to figure out how to build one. 

The reasons lie in the complex science of quantum physics, which examines the ambiguous nature of particles and their energy. In this oddball world, electrons can be in many places at once, and particles pop into and out of existence on a regular basis. At the atomic level, in fact, seemingly solid particles are regarded as little more than clouds of probable locations, insubstantial until observed. 

Instead of being on one side of a barrier, for instance, an electron might have a 50% chance of being on either side. Disturbance created by just observing an electron, however, will collapse those probabilities and force it onto one side of the barrier or the other. 

The late Dr. Feynman and others theorized that a quantum computer could make use of that indeterminacy. Where a traditional computer stores data as binary "bits" of information in the form of ones and zeroes, a quantum bit, or qubit, could instead be both a one and a zero at the same time. String together just 100 qubits, for instance, and they could represent all of a quadrillion quadrillion binary numbers at once. 

That means a quantum computer could theoretically process many pieces of data at once, generating tremendous computing speed. For years, however, no one knew how to get information into or out of a quantum computer, how to program one, or how to operate one without disturbing the delicate state of qubits. 

In 1994, researcher Peter Schor at AT&T Corp.'s AT&T Laboratories gave the field a boost with the first quantum algorithm, a set of computing instructions that demonstrated a surprisingly efficient way of factoring large numbers, a mathematical technique useful in such fields as breaking codes. 

IBM's Mr. Chuang and his team, meanwhile, hit upon a novel way to actually build a quantum computer by using the atomic nuclei in organic molecules as qubits. Such nuclei exhibit different states, which can be assigned ones or zeros for use in computing; physicists call these traits "spin," and speak of nuclei being spun "up" or "down." Physicists already knew how to manipulate those spin states, making it possible to input data and to read the output. 

Several research teams have subsequently built working quantum computers, though none complex enough to run even a simplified version of Mr. Schor's factoring algorithm. In March, for instance, a team at Los Alamos National Laboratory demonstrated a quantum computer of seven qubits. 

These machines bear little resemblance to that of a traditional computer. The Los Alamos team, for instance, started by asking chemists there to synthesize a peculiar molecule, one containing a rare form of carbon and several hydrogen atoms, most of which would be used as individual qubits. 

The scientists next transferred a capful of liquid that contained about a million billion copies of that molecule to a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer, a device that uses the same technology as medical-imaging scanners. There, they used magnetic fields to synchronize the spins of the carbon and hydrogen qubits. 

The Los Alamos group was mainly testing its ability to maintain stable control over the system. Had they wanted to perform calculations, they could have hit the sample qubits with a carefully chosen pattern of radio pulses. Each pulse would be tuned to a frequency corresponding to one of the individual qubits, affecting the spin states and edging certain bits closer to one or zero. 

Such devices are now too cumbersome for practical use, but researchers are enthusiastic about new approaches. Some are exploring ways to make qubits using superconducting materials or by trapping electrons with acoustic waves, while others are exploring the use of quantum dots, tiny bumps "grown" onto the surface of a silicon wafer. Raymond Laflamme, who heads the Los Alamos team, says that the next task is to build working qubits out of solid material rather than liquid, a step that will make the devices even easier to control. 

"We're hoping that in five to 10 years, we'll be able to make 25 to 30 qubits," Mr. Laflamme says. "Thirty qubits is kind of a magic number -- that's when a classical computer can't catch up with quantum computing anymore." 


---
              How a Quantum Computer Works
  -- PREPARATION: Chemists prepare a special molecule with several
atoms that `spin' at different frequencies. These atoms are the
`qubits' of quantum computing. Researchers put a solution of these
molecules into a nuclear magnetic-resonance chamber and apply a
magnetic field to set the qubits to `zero.'"
  -- PROGRAMMING: Thanks to the fundamental weirdness of quantum
mechanics, each qubit can theoretically represent `one,' `zero,' and
all the states in between. The NMR machine hits the solution with a
sequence of radio waves at different frequencies, each of which nudges
a qubit toward `one' or `zero.' This sequence is the quantum computer's
`program.'"
  -- COMPUTATION: Each qubit also exchanges spin information with
nearby qubits according to physical laws, a process analogous to the
computing that a conventional computer does using electronic circuits.
Over time, that process forces the qubits to settle into a final state
-- either a  `one' or a `zero.'"
  -- RESULTS: Physicists use instruments to record the NMR spectrum of
the sample; interpreting that result yields the final `answer' to the
computing problem.


Document j000000020010807dw8h00m0g


More Like This

 Article 152 *******************    



Soul Saver: Inside Hewlett-Packard, Carly Fiorina Combines Discipline, New-Age Talk --- Some Executives Lose Sleep, But Now H-P Units Work With Each Other on Deals --- Big Kudos for `Ann Amazon' 

By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
2,243 words 
22 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal 
A1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Corrections & Amplifications 


A PAGE-ONE article Tuesday incorrectly stated that Hewlett-Packard Co. makes scientific instruments and misstated its share-price high as $155.50. H-P spun off its instrument business earlier this year, and its split-adjusted share-price high was $136.19. The article also incorrectly implied that Xerox Corp. is unprofitable; it remains profitable, although net income and revenue have slumped recently. (WSJ Aug. 25, 2000) 


At a company event in June, Carly Fiorina told employees that she envisions a remade Hewlett-Packard Co. as "a winning e-company with a shining soul." 

Pacing back and forth in a smart business suit, pausing only for an occasional sip of bottled water, Ms. Fiorina exhorted employees to "aspirational performance" and asked them to commit "your hearts, your minds and your souls" to her mission. H-P, she said, "must be known as much for its strength of character as it is for the strength of its results." 

The staid company long known as the Gray Lady of Silicon Valley has a new chief executive who often sounds like a New Age inspirational speaker. But the first outsider to take the reins in H-P's 60-year history also has used what she calls "well-placed shocks" to goad the technically accomplished but slow-moving manufacturer into the Internet age. 

Soon after arriving about a year ago, she unveiled a major corporate reorganization. Her top executives told her it would take a year to plan; she ordered it done in three months. It was. 

Without layoffs or a merger, Ms. Fiorina, 45 years old, aims to overhaul a company of 85,000 employees making everything from scientific instruments and laser printers to "big iron" server computers and PCs. 

So far, H-P seems to be responding. The company's revenue growth, which had slowed to just 3% in the late 1990s, has accelerated again to 15%. Its share price has jumped 25% since she took over, to a split-adjusted $111.25, though that is down from its 52-week high of $155.50. 

Not long ago, the company seemed in danger of missing the Internet era altogether, as it was overshadowed by such competitors as Sun Microsystems Inc. and International Business Machines Corp. H-P still has plenty of heavy lifting to do. For example, Sun continues to best H-P in sales of large server computers to companies integrating the Internet into their operations. 

For all her pep talks, Ms. Fiorina's firm demands for improved performance have taken a personal toll at the company. A modest number of H-P middle managers have elected to leave, although the company won't say precisely how many. 

Some remaining executives and employees, including those who applaud Ms. Fiorina's changes, admit that keeping up with her can be wearing. A number of veterans worry about preserving the "H-P Way," a revered corporate tradition of employee support and innovation. 

Unless subordinates consciously carve out time for their own initiatives, Ms. Fiorina's requests and directives can consume the entire day, says Robert Wayman, H-P's chief financial officer. He has cut back on outside commitments and canceled a family vacation to keep up. 

"I don't think anyone is sleeping very much," Antonio Perez, another top executive, said in November. Since then, he has retired from H-P but praises the Fiorina shakeup. He says he left the company only because he wanted a shot at being a chief executive himself, which he has done at Gemplus SA, a French maker of "smart" cards. 

Similar turnaround attempts at other troubled, conservative companies have foundered when leaders demanded what turned out to be too much change too quickly. In June, Procter & Gamble Co. ousted reformer CEO Durk Jager after just 17 months. Xerox Corp. dumped its outsider chief executive, Richard Thoman, in May; managers there say they don't know when the company will return to profitability. 

H-P could run into similar problems adjusting to sudden change. Founded in a Silicon Valley garage in 1939 by William Hewlett and David Packard, the paternalistic company was long governed by a few simple maxims: treat employees with respect, plan for the long term, and hold bureaucracy to a minimum by dividing business units when they get too big. 

Those ideas served H-P well for decades, but by the mid-1990s, it was stagnating. When Ms. Fiorina arrived, H-P had splintered into 83 autonomous businesses that had no overarching strategy. Most of the units exercised nearly total authority over their budgets, often to the detriment of broader goals. 

Just over a year ago, H-P lost a Chinese banking-system deal worth roughly $50 million to rival IBM. The main stumbling block: A midlevel H-P manager in the U.S. declined to spare $50,000 to build a prototype of the system for the would-be customer. "Things like that happened all the time," Cheng-Yaw Sun, H-P's general manager in China, says with a sigh. 

Ms. Fiorina, a former executive at Lucent Technologies Inc., quickly saw parallels between H-P and her former company. Like Lucent during its 1996 spinoff from AT&T Corp., H-P needed to take several bold steps simultaneously to dislodge an entrenched culture, Ms. Fiorina says. 

She actually had experienced that culture many years earlier, when she worked briefly as a secretary at Hewlett-Packard. That was before she tried law school, dropped out and eventually received an M.B.A. She later joined AT&T and, following the Lucent spinoff, rose to head the telecommunications-equipment provider's global-services business. 

In her first three months as H-P's chief executive, she unleashed a new advertising campaign, starring herself and emphasizing the H-P brand over the former hodgepodge of product names. She tore up the company's profit-sharing program in favor of a strict performance-based bonus system. 

Most dramatically, she launched a plan to consolidate H-P's 83 businesses into only 12. She also aligned the reduced number of divisions into two "front-end" groups that would focus on customer activities, such as marketing and sales, and two "back-end" organizations devoted strictly to designing and making computer and printer products. 

Old-time H-P executives were shocked. "I was a deer caught in the headlights when she described the front and back end," says Carolyn Ticknor, who now presides over the merged printer unit. Several of these executives protested that employees weren't ready for a major reorganization. 

Some executives fretted that managers wouldn't wield "real" authority if they couldn't control both product development and marketing. "It took some of the glory, if you wish, out of the job," says Mr. Perez, the departed executive. 

Consternation rippled through the ranks. Managers who had long aspired to run their own autonomous units, known as P&Ls, short for profit & loss, suddenly saw most of those jobs disappear. 

Few parts of H-P resented the changes as much as the proud laser- and inkjet-printer divisions, which together contribute roughly two-thirds of the company's profits. Neal Martini, who ran much of the laser-printer operation, learned he would lose his authority over sales, marketing and manufacturing. He says he watched valued but fed-up colleagues leave for other jobs and often found himself grousing at the office coffee pot. 

"The feeling was, here was Carly, who wasn't a long time in the H-P culture, who doesn't understand our business and the H-P Way, and doesn't understand our strengths, particularly in businesses that were viewed as so successful for so long," he says. "It initially felt like a big disempowerment." 

The changes were so anguishing that "in the middle of this thing, I didn't sleep for nights," says Vyomesh Joshi, a vice president in the inkjet division. But as Mr. Martini, Mr. Joshi and their colleagues dutifully remodeled their operations, they started to see some advantages of the new organization. 

H-P's laser and inkjet printers, for instance, had always used incompatible software and network connections, making it difficult for customers to swap a laser printer for an inkjet. With its design teams merged, H-P plans to introduce a fully compatible line of inkjet and laser printers this fall. Messrs. Martini and Joshi have remained with the company in senior positions in the merged printer division. 

In a few areas, the results have already been striking. Frustrated customers had long complained that large purchases required them to deal separately with several H-P divisions. So Ms. Fiorina tapped Ann Livermore, who previously ran the server-computer division, to consolidate dealings with the company's top 100 customers. 

One of Ms. Livermore's early successes in her new role came with Amazon.com. Ms. Fiorina personally helped persuade the online retailer to install 20 of H-P's top-of-the-line servers to run its site over the busy Christmas season last year. At a party at Amazon in February, Ms. Livermore cornered two executives and offered to supply the company's entire computer infrastructure. The Amazon executives just laughed and asked if H-P was willing to buy a nearby building and fill it with staff to win the deal, she says. 

It didn't quite come to that, although Ms. Livermore's sales team did camp out in Amazon's conference rooms for days, eventually proposing to supply Amazon not only with servers, but also printers and personal computers. The deal, worth hundreds of millions of dollars over 18 months, would have been unthinkable at the old H-P, whose disparate divisions couldn't have worked together so easily. 

The day after announcing the deal in May, Ms. Fiorina dubbed Ms. Livermore "Ann Amazon, warrior woman" at a morale-boosting session attended by hundreds of employees. 

That was a sweet vindication for Ms. Livermore, who was passed over for the top job last year and found herself flooded with offers from the likes of Compaq Computer Corp. and Dell Computer Corp. Ms. Fiorina, however, implored Ms. Livermore to stay and boosted her stock-options package, a bonus that could be worth millions, says a person familiar with the situation. 

While she can be generous to keep a top performer, Ms. Fiorina doesn't mind ruffling feathers. During a business-review meeting last August, Bill Russell, then Ms. Livermore's deputy, confessed that sales of the company's Unix servers were lagging so badly that H-P risked missing its financial targets for the quarter. 

"I got fairly well lambasted on the point of what we were going to do about it," says Mr. Russell. Ms. Fiorina's pointed questions taught him, he says, that "whatever we thought was good enough, wasn't good enough now." Within days, top executives had cobbled together plans to tighten expenses and close a few big deals earlier -- enough to meet the targets. 

The new pressure on H-P's businesses has produced some unexpected consequences. One of the biggest came at the company's previously demoralized basic-research division, H-P Laboratories. 

Ms. Fiorina took an early interest in the labs, seeing them as a key source of innovation. She has made a habit of passing through the research area every month, once bringing along H-P's entire board. On one visit, she dropped by a lab working on "Cool Town," an effort to use basic Web technology, which is available to anyone, to build a "pervasive" computing environment in which gadgets from PCs to wristwatches can communicate. 

"They show me this incredible stuff," Ms. Fiorina recalls, "and then they tell me, `Our funding is about to get cut off' " by the labs' administration. 

That quickly changed. With its finances secure, Cool Town is thriving. Sales and marketing managers frequently bring customers to tour the project. 

The high-level patronage has reinvigorated morale throughout the labs. Until Ms. Fiorina arrived, Stan Williams, a researcher in nanotechnology, the science of manipulating atomic structures, had planned to move his lab to Agilent Technologies Inc., a test-and-measurement company spun off from H-P earlier this year. Now, H-P is building a new multimillion-dollar nanofabrication facility. It may not generate commercially useful work for years, but the investment could help H-P retain researchers in a field that one day could allow more powerful silicon chips to be "grown" by means of subatomic chemistry and physics, rather than manufactured in complex factories. 

Ms. Fiorina wants H-P eventually to be known for three main specialties: Internet infrastructure such as servers; information appliances, from PCs and hand-held devices to "intelligent" printers; and e-services that will anticipate users' needs. It's a tall order, not least because aggressive competitors such as Sun, Dell and IBM have so far been more successful in many of those markets. 

Ms. Fiorina, however, predicts that her troops will leap ahead of these rivals. "This is a company of people who can do things no one else can do," she says. 

Document j000000020010807dw8m00mpo


More Like This

 Article 153 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

Fueling the Nano World with DNA 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
243 words 
28 August 2000
Business Week 
215 
Number 3696 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

The tweezer coming together below is way too small for plucking hairs. It's so tiny that 100,000 could fit on a pinhead. Yet this nanotweezer, crafted at Lucent Technologies' Bell Laboratories, looms large in the emerging field of nanotech. It shows how ``fuel'' can be used to power tomorrow's nanoscale machines--gadgets so small they're measured in billionths of a meter. 

Both the motorized tweezer and its fuel are built from DNA. The goal, says physicist Bernard Yurke, was to devise a recipe for coaxing DNA strands to self-assemble into ``biomotors'' that could be the muscles for futuristic nanobots. Visionaries have long talked about microscopic robots roaming the human body, repairing cells to correct the ravages of age. Yurke wasn't sure how energy would be delivered to such machines--until some DNA segments started folding up and sticking together. Then Yurke's team, which hadn't wanted that sticking, found another DNA strand that unlocked the folded one. The two strands, used alternately, close and open the tweezer. 

The same principle could also be applied to various nanoscale activities and locomotion. Now, another potential for self-assembled DNA has grabbed Yurke's attention: creating nanochips for superfast computers. Computer speed is governed mainly by the distance signals must travel. With nanosize DNA circuitry, Yurke envisions computers 1,000 times faster than today's speediest. 

Document bw00000020010804dw8s003c2


More Like This

 Article 154 *******************    



Technology 

Gilding The Ivory Tower A generation ago academia was pure and profitless. Now look what's up at Stanford. Depending on your perspective, it's either selling out or keeping up with the times. 

BY Quentin Hardy 
898 words 
4 September 2000
Forbes 
126 
English
Copyright 2000 Forbes Inc. 

O NCE UPON A TIME university professors studied the world to better admire it--knowledge for knowledge's sake. Businessmen were not particularly welcome on campus, except when a moneymaker immortalized himself with a new building. 

The beginning of the end of that fairy tale came 65 years ago for Stanford University. The university fostered Hewlett-Packard, whose creation paved the way for Silicon Valley. Since then some 350 tech companies have sprung from the arcadian hills surrounding Palo Alto, Calif. 

The runaway success that Stanford created is now forcing the school to change. John L. Hennessy, who took office as the university's president effective Sept. 1, is facing one of the toughest tests in the school's 109-year history: to maintain the university's influence and independence amid a business community moving so fast it threatens to relegate Stanford to little more than an electrical engineering farm team. 

Stanford is easy pickings for the Valley's talent scouts. "When I was starting out, there wasn't that big a salary gap between business and research. Now the numbers are so big they distort people's thinking," says Hennessy, 47. 

Venture capitalists such as Sequoia Capital, Institutional Venture Partners and Sutter Hill Ventures have funded fellowships and hang out with professors to see what's going on. Tempted by fortune, students are leaving before finishing doctorates. Forget frats: Stanford's largest student group is the engineering entrepreneurship association. 

Hennessy, a professor of electrical engineering and computer science with 23 years at Stanford, has the right background to figure out the university's new role. He's the first engineer to head the institution, and the first to have started a company, MIPS Technologies, which sold for $330 million to Silicon Graphics. As dean of the school of engineering from 1996 to 1999, he mentored many of the students who went on to build Internet firms, including Jerry Yang and David Filo of Yahoo. 

Hennessy wants to tighten Stanford's already cozy relations with business. In that respect it has some catching up to do with other elite colleges. In the past 12 months MIT has spun out 30 new companies based on work begun on campus, a 50% increase over the prior year. MIT took equity in half of those firms, including Akamai ($8 billion market capitalization). 

Hennessy can think of only two spinoff companies in which Stanford has taken equity. Stanford had no action in Cisco ($445 billion market cap), started by Stanford employees who were networking Stanford computers. "That would have been a good one to own," Hennessy says. 

Yet Hennessy worries about taking a pound of flesh from young companies. The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign threatened to sue Mosaic Communications, forcing it to change its name to Netscape, after Marc Andreessen and his fellow programmers fled the campus to market their browser. That soured relations permanently. 

To stanch the talent drain, Hennessy figures his best shot is raising the payoff from the intellectual excitement of research. Stanford can't increase an engineering professor's salary tenfold. What would the French department say? 

In what may be a model for the future, Hennessy's former colleague, professor-turned-entrepreneur James Clark, put $150 million last year toward a cross-disciplinary program in biomedical engineering and science. The center combines faculty from ten disciplines, from physiology to basic genetics and nanotechnology, to look for new therapies and cures for disease. 

"They'll get more research gains in all their disciplines," Hennessy says. "Give them an intellectual cross-pollination that business can't--that's something a university can do." 

There are risks. What if entrepreneurs short-circuit the quest for pure knowledge--that is, pull the technology out before the research is over? Stanford must balance learning for its own sake with creating new companies. Hennessy thinks companies should sponsor more of the work that they profit from, and wants to bring more corporate scientists onto campus for special projects. The trick, he says, is to bring in as many as possible. "I've got Lucent, Cisco, Nortel and Sun all in my networking center, talking about what they want the Internet to look like," he says. "When you bring in a lot of them, they converge on the big issues, forget about their own agendas." 

Hennessy hopes Stanford will gain more voluntary donations from the private sector. So far the Net wealth has only trickled in: Stanford's annual gifts have increased less than 3%, to $319 million, since 1996. "The new entrepreneurs are young; we're learning how to interact," Hennessy says. "You have to take a 20-year horizon." 

Playing off Silicon Valley's relentless desire for the "new" new thing in technology, he calls his Stanford "the new old thing--the old university in new ways." Traditional university presidents might feel uncomfortable about Hennessy's plan to bring Stanford even closer to the business community. The VCs certainly don't see a conflict. Hennessy was recently a featured speaker at a Mayfield Fund retreat. "We feel it's great to have one of ours in there," Mayfield partner Kevin Fong says. 

Document fb00000020010805dw94001eg


More Like This

 Article 155 *******************    



Up Front: THE LIST 

THE NEW NEW THINGS 

168 words 
18 September 2000
Business Week 
14 
Number 3699 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.


The New New Things
Ten years ago, most people had never heard of the Internet. How will the next
technological revolution affect consumers? Marketers, get ready: Here's a peek
at the future, based on actual corporate research and development.
GENETIC-BASED MEDICINE VIA NANOMACHINE
Drugs designed for a person's genetic makeup will be injected into the blood
stream through tiny machines
ULTRAPERSONAL COMPUTERS
Consumers will use tiny, wireless, computers embedded in clothing--or even
skin--to access data
PERSONALIZED PRIVATE TRANSPORTATION
Info tech will guide your car around traffic jams and make sure you don't ever
run out of gas
SUPER SENSES
Implanted sensors and genetic aids will reverse vision and hearing impairment
HIGH-POWERED LITTLE ENERGY PLANTS
Microgenerators of electricity will allow machines and computers to travel
pretty much anywhere
DATA: BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE/WORLD FUTURE SOCIETY/GEORGE WASHINGTON
UNIVERSITY SCHOLARS; AMERICAN DEMOGRAPHICS' FORECAST


Photograph: TECH'S FRESH FACE PHOTOGRAPH BY YOSHIDA/FUJIFOTOS/FDB/LIAISON AGENCY 


Document bw00000020010804dw9i003pf


More Like This

 Article 156 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

BY PETTI FONG 
268 words 
18 September 2000
Business Week 
99 
Number 3699 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- Algae the size of a house? No, it's not a promo for a B-grade horror movie. It's a scene from Ohio University, where scientists are using the stuff to absorb CO2 emissions from power stations. Using heat-resistant strains of algae taken from hot springs in Yellowstone National Park, researchers have built a filter that could attach to the exhaust systems of coal-burning power stations. Before exhaust leaves the smokestack, the algae can sop up some 20% of the CO2. The biggest problem now? Finding a way to grow enough algae to fill a house-size filter. 

-- Anyone for a green newspaper? Researchers at the University of Florida have developed a cheaper, more efficient way to remove ink from recycled paper. The method uses chemicals that halve the cost of the process and increase the quality of the finished product to nearly that of virgin material, says engineering professor Hassan El-Shall. His colleague, Brij Moudgil, believes the lower cost may raise demand for recycled paper. 

-- Bringing the dream of nanomachines closer to reality, scientists at the University of California at Berkeley have created springs and bearings one ten-thousandth the diameter of a human hair. Using concentric cylinders of carbon atoms called nanotubes, they discovered that the small tube spins freely within the larger one and resists being pulled free, thus acting like both a spring and a ball bearing. Better yet, there is no apparent friction: No matter how many times they flexed the tubes, ``We saw no fatigue,'' said John Cumings, a graduate assistant. 

Document bw00000020010804dw9i003u7


More Like This

 Article 157 *******************    



WEEKEND JOURNAL 

Taste: Irreplaceable You --- Don't worry, robots aren't taking over; Even Keanu Reeves is safe 

By Dick Teresi 
1,217 words 
22 September 2000
The Wall Street Journal 
W17 
English
(Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Two decades ago, I had lunch with an eminence grise of robotics and artificial intelligence. It was the longest 75 minutes of my life. Irony, sarcasm, humor -- every nuance of language -- befuddled this man. Every word I uttered, every word the waiter or busboy uttered, was processed by his brain with the same slow deliberation, and every sentence assigned the same priority. It was like an old-fashioned player piano performing a Chopin nocturne. All the notes were there, but . . . 

Finally, at the 63rd minute (I know, because I was checking my watch), the scientist came to the point: He wanted a small sum of money for a publishing project. I complied. From minute 64 to minute 75, when the check was paid, all conversation ceased. Why not? His business had been completed. From this lunch I became convinced of two things. In 1981 we could not build a robot equal to the average human. We could, however, build a robot whose consciousness would be indistinguishable from a robotics expert's. 

Robots today have made great, if awkward, strides. This I conclude from "Robo Sapiens," a beautiful new book from photographer Peter Menzel and writer Faith D'Aluisio (published by MIT Press). It is a picture book containing more than a hundred of, if not the best, at least the most photogenic robots in the world. The text goes way beyond the usual coffee-table fluff. Ms. D'Aluisio has chronicled the modern face(s) of robotics, interviewing the major robotics experts and citing the specifications of their creations. 

Beyond that, Ms. D'Aluisio and Mr. Menzel serve up a surprise. Robot makers are worried. Very worried. They warn us that someday -- like maybe next Wednesday -- their products may run amok. Ms. D'Aluisio writes: "Some roboticists believe that machines will never approach human abilities; others, that they will inevitably take over the world. Still a third school argues that . . . people will become robots." I suspect the author doesn't believe this herself but is humoring her sources by reporting their deep thoughts. A clue: Ms. D'Aluisio refers to roboticists as Those Who Know (italics hers). 

Intimations of apocalypse are a trend. Recently, Sun Microsystems co-founder Bill Joy warned that biotech, nanotech and robotics will destroy us all. Roboticists have taken up the whining. "The human race as we know it," says the University of Reading's Kevin Warwick, "is very likely in its endgame." Robots will soon realize their superiority to human beings, he says, and crush us. 

What is this? Do TV moguls tell us that they will rot our minds? Does Eminem cry out, "Stop me before I hiphop again!" Does The Wall Street Journal fret about turning us into vacuous capitalists? No. They just do it and shut up. The brow-furrowing is normally left to liberal-arts majors from Swarthmore. Why are roboticists warning us to fear them? My theory is this: They don't really have the goods. They figure if they run around snarling, "We bad! We bad!," we will accept that they are bad, in the moral sense, and overlook the embarrassing fact that they're just plain bad, in the ineffectual sense. 

The "new generation" of robots shown in "Robo Sapiens" probably owes more to Mr. Menzel's photographic artistry than to its members' superhuman abilities. The six-inch Unibug 1.0 scuttles across sand dunes, looking every bit the real-life crustacean, leaving crab-like tracks. The car-crushing, flame-belching Robosaurus straddles a Las Vegas parking lot, like Godzilla over Toyko. The $1 million, 6-foot-2 Japanese Dynamic Brain actually juggles balls! Wow. I can't do that. 

Ms. D'Aluisio's rapier text provides a refreshing counterpoint to the evocative photos. She explains that the robots have no endurance. When MIT's Marc Railbert was asked to provide robots for a movie, he found they didn't work well out of the lab. They didn't like the heat; they didn't like location shooting; they weren't ready when the director said, "Roll camera." Someday robots might be super-intelligent. Right now they fall intellectually short of Keanu Reeves. The $1 million juggling robot? It kept the balls aloft only a few seconds before dropping them. I can do that. At half the cost. 

Hubris abounds. Philosophers and neuroscientists have yet to define human consciousness. Nonetheless, roboticists say they are on the verge of developing consciousness in steel and silicon. MIT's putatively brilliant Rodney Brooks tells Ms. D'Aluisio, "We over-anthropomorphize people too much." I once telephoned the MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab daily for three weeks, and no one picked up. On the fourth week, a human finally answered the phone. "We got new carpeting," he said, by way of explanation. Workmen had laid the carpet over the phone jacks, and the roboticists couldn't find them. We can train robots to call home, but what if there's fresh carpet? 

Another book that sheds light on the robotic future is Tim Onosko's 1979 classic, "Wasn't the Future Wonderful?," in which he examines the fears of the 1930s. A 1932 edition of The Technocrat's Magazine shows a robot on the cover rampant against the Washington skyline crushing a man in one gigantic hand. Inside the headline ponders: "Is Man Doomed by the Machine Age?" Boxer Jack Dempsey allayed some fears with an article in Modern Mechanix Magazine, "I Can Whip Any Mechanical Robot." Jack promised to "scatter its brain wheels and cogs all over the canvas." 

An earlier source ignored by modern roboticists is the "Kitab al-Hiyal" ("The Book of Ingenious Devices"), by the three Banu Musa brothers of ninth-century Baghdad. The local Caliphs loved animatronics and commissioned theme parks with singing birds, roaring lions and other automata. The "Kitab al-Hiyal" describes early Arabic versions of robots, including trick vessels -- self-replenishing pitchers and the like -- but stops short of ascribing consciousness to the teapots. No warning of world domination by 932 either. 

The Banu Musa boys knew what we know. Robots are fun to watch, fun to build. They are not, however, a new species. In the 1980s, I attended the NASA unveiling of a new robot. Most robots, we were told, can perform only one task. This new robot could perform two. The roboticist held up two dowels, a thick one and a skinny one. He then showed us a wooden board with two corresponding holes, thick and thin. He placed the thick dowel in the robot's claw. The size of a small refrigerator on wheels, the robot lurched toward the board with frightening power. It showed no indecision but eschewed both holes in favor of making a third hole with the dowel. The board splintered; the dowel stuck. 

At the risk of over-anthropomorphizing roboticists, something akin to humiliation, or maybe indigestion, spread across the NASA guys' faces. I tried to help. "Far out," I said. "You've created a robot with free will." The roboticists looked happier. I was, of course, kidding. They did not, of course, realize that. 

--- 

Mr. Teresi is the former editor of Omni. 

Document j000000020010807dw9m00oy4


More Like This

 Article 158 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

SLIVERS OF CARBON THAT COULD BREAK A CHIP'S FEVER 

EDITED BY CATHERINE ARNST By Otis Port 
198 words 
25 September 2000
Business Week 
113 
Number 3700 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

CHIPS SPROUTING HAIRS? IT'S not such a fuzzy notion. Two University of Pennsylvania researchers believe ultraslim hairs of carbon might be the best way to cool down overheated silicon chips. 

Electrons whizzing through ever-smaller wires on chips are generating a growing problem: heat. Better cooling methods could be vital for tomorrow's shrunken circuits, and carbon nanotubes might be just the ticket, according to Penn scientists A.T. Johnson and John E. Fischer. 

In fact, nanotubes could be the best heat-transfer material there is. These teensy tubes of pure carbon--only 1/10,000th the width of a human hair--are ``roughly 10 times better at conducting heat than anything else,'' says Johnson. In the Sept. 8 issue of Science, the two scientists report that heat flows through the nanotubes at an amazing 10,000 meters per second. 

Embedding nanotubes in a chip's plastic or ceramic housing could create tiny ``heat stacks'' to cool the circuitry inside. The tubes might also be used to cool motor parts or the leading edges of airplane wings. 

Document bw00000020010804dw9p0041a


More Like This

 Article 159 *******************    


Features/Wireless/Frame 8 

Nanotech

Clive Thompson 
182 words 
9 October 2000
Fortune Magazine 
146 
Internet 
English
(Copyright 2000) 

When it comes to the mirrors in optical switches, small is all. That's because the smaller the mirrors, the more of them you can cram into a single switch, making it possible to route ever more optical signals from fiber to fiber. Bell Labs and Lucent Technologies' upcoming WaveStar LambdaRouter switch takes things tinier than ever, using nanotechnology to build mirrors only a few hundred microns, or about half a millimeter, across. (Both the mirrors and the needle below have been magnified to make them more visible). The result? The switch will be able to handle up to 1,024 signals, transmitting at 40 gigs per second--about 16 times faster than today's switches. One single Lambda switch, Lucent boasts, could handle all the traffic on the Internet simultaneously. As spokesman Saswato Das puts it, "It's fast, it's cheap, and it's robust.... We're coming to the point where we're going to have a bandwidth bottleneck, and this is a way to help prevent it." 

--C.T. 

COLOR PHOTO 


Document fortu00020010806dwa90012b


More Like This

 Article 160 *******************    


Features/The Future 

Ray Kurzweil "By 2030 we'll have full-immersion, shared, virtual-reality environments." 

Ray Kurzweil; David Kirkpatrick 
613 words 
9 October 2000
Fortune Magazine 
252+ 
Internet 
English
(Copyright 2000) 

Speech technology pioneer Ray Kurzweil is the author of The Age of Intelligent Machines and The Age of Spiritual Machines, published last year. He was interviewed by David Kirkpatrick. 

A very important aspect of the future is going to be virtual reality--our ability to relate with each other in new ways, much more intimate ways, facilitated by technology. We've had one form of virtual reality for a century--the telephone, or auditory virtual reality. We take it for granted, but when people first experienced it in the 19th century, it was quite a revelation. It amazed people that you could be with another person even though they're in Philadelphia, at least as far as talking to them is concerned. Nothing like that had ever happened in human history. 

In the last century we've introduced crude forms of transporting ourselves visually--television and videoconferencing. Now we add trends like the Internet, the explosion of bandwidth, of computing capacity, and the growing resolution of visual displays. By the end of this decade we'll all have high-bandwidth, reliable wireless communication. The electronics will be extremely small. Personal computers will be invisible because they'll be so tiny they'll be in your eyeglasses or contact lenses, or in your clothing. The images will be written directly to your retina. And the resolution will be competitive with our visual sense. It might sometimes overtake your entire visual field of view. If you and I wanted to meet, we could block out real reality and sit on a virtual beach or in a virtual game-preserve cafe--although it might be frustrating to sit in a cafe if we can't eat. 

By 2030 you'll see full-immersion, shared, virtual-reality environments, or spaces, involving all the senses, where we can actually go inside our bodies and brains and tap into the flow of signals coming from our senses. 

Several technologies are involved: first, computation, which is getting very small and inexpensive; then, wireless communications, so you could have billions of nanobots, or little microscopic blood- cell-sized robots, communicate with each other over a wireless local area network and also with the Internet; and miniaturization, so you could make these complex devices very small. 

Another technology that exists today, in crude form, is the neuron transistor, an electronic device that can communicate with a biological neuron in both directions wirelessly. If the neuron fires, which is a primary way of making a decision, it creates an electromagnetic pulse that's easy for this piece of electronics to pick up. The device can also create an electromagnetic pulse and trigger the neuron to fire or suppress it from firing. 

So you have billions of nanobots taking up positions in the capillaries next to every nerve fiber coming from all of your senses. If you want to be in real reality, the nanobots sit there and do nothing, and you experience the world in the normal way. But let's say you want to leave real reality. This will shut down the signals coming from your real senses and replace them with the signals you would be receiving if you were in the virtual environment. 

Just the way today you have people beaming their lives from their apartments using Webcams, people will be beaming their entire flow of sensory experiences. Rather than just watching their apartment, you will actually experience their sensory experiences--and their emotional reactions. 

See also introduction page 250 of same issue 

B/W PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY FERGUS GREER 


Document fortu00020010806dwa90012o


More Like This

 Article 161 *******************    



European Fund Fulfills Its Public Duty By Pouring Money Into Private Equity 

By Charles Fleming 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
921 words 
18 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal 
B11C 
English
(Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

LUXEMBOURG -- There is more public money in private equity than you might think. 

One of the largest single institutional investors in European venture-capital funds -- arguably the largest -- is the European Investment Fund, run by a small team of civil servants based here in Luxembourg with as much as four billion euros ($3.4 billion) of public money to invest during the next three years. 

That might sound like the stuff of market-distorting nightmares, but don't be too quick to judge: This isn't another article about free-spending Eurocrats in duty-free Saabs blowing taxpayers' money on wooly dreams. The EIF is basically a giant fund of funds, controlled by the European Investment Bank, which invests like any insurance company or pension fund in private venture-capital firms. 

But whereas other institutional investors typically commit less than 5% of their assets to the sector -- those amounted to a total 25 billion euros last year -- venture capital is the EIF's main business. (It also provides small-business loan guarantees to financial institutions). Other than size, however, there isn't much difference from other investors in the business. 

"The EIF's terms aren't softer than any one else's [and] venture capitalists treat them like any other investor," says Jim Martin, managing partner of Add Partners, a high-technology VC firm based in London that currently is seeking money for a new fund from institutional investors, including the EIF. 

It is a common observation by now that there is no shortage of money in the venture-capital industry. Despite volatile stock markets, new private-equity funds are being raised week after week. So what, one might ask, is the point of putting public money to work in a sector already flush with cash? 

"Today the problem isn't money," acknowledges EIF Chairman Walter Cernoia, "but how to put this money as much as possible into the right sectors, and the right regions, to achieve the [European] Community's objectives of growth and employment." 

Of course, declaring that one's mission is investing in venture-capital funds in order to boost employment may cause some to snicker. But Mr. Cernoia insists such public-service objectives aren't contradictory with achieving decent returns. "The two things can go together, especially in this business," he says. 

In his case they have to: Picking up a copy of the fund's statutes and patting it, he says, "This is my bible." Sure enough, Article 2 refers to those public-sector objectives, and Article 24 stipulates the EIF should generate an "appropriate return." 

It is still early to judge what those returns will be, but the European Investment Fund already has made an impressive roster of investments during the past three years in some 160 funds, for a total of 1.4 billion euros. Those include some top-flight VC firms across Europe, including the Merlin biotech fund and the Amadeus Partners technology fund in the United Kingdom, Sofinnova Partners and Galileo in France, the Capman fund in Finland and the Kiwi fund in Italy. 

Although the EIF has been around almost six years now, it promises to be an even more powerful force in venture capital going forward. In June, the European Investment Bank effectively assumed full control of the fund, buying out a number of the private-sector banks and pooling its own larger venture-capital business with that of the EIF. Although some of the 67 private banks, who between them held 20% of EIF's capital, complained at the time about the buyout terms, about 20 remain today with a total 10% of the capital. The European Investment Bank has 60% and the European Commission holds the rest. 

Today, the fund is looking at a wide range of technology and industrial sectors that the mainstream VC market has tended to overlook, such as biotechnology, nanotechnology (focusing on miniaturization), new materials, agribusiness and creative content for new media, says Jacques Lilli, the EIF's senior venture-capital officer and adviser to Mr. Cernoia. 

The sheer amount the EIF has to invest may end up forcing it into those same areas it considers already well funded, such as telecommunications or the Internet. "The amount of money they have is enormous," says Rudy Aernoudt, a European Commission specialist on small-business financing. "If they use it wisely, they can really influence the European VC market. But the fund's size makes it a challenge to focus on sectors that need investment, like seed financing, and sectors other than high technology," he says. 

And what about Gresham's Law? (That, in case it slipped your mind, is the one about bad money chasing good money out of the market.) Mr. Cernoia rebuts any suggestion that the EIF's money would take the place of private funds, noting that its mission is exactly the opposite. In practice, Mr. Cernoia adds, the fund is looking to play a catalytic role in venture capital, acting as a lead investor and encouraging other, more cautious institutional investors to fund innovative sectors by leaning on the EIF's own extensive due diligence on venture-capital management teams. 

"We'll never invest in a fund if there's not a fair part of the risk taken by the private sector," Mr. Cernoia says. "And I'm not going to invest in something because a government asks me." 

Document j000000020010807dwai00r9p


More Like This

 Article 162 *******************    



Industry Monitor 

INNOVATIONS 

BY PETTI FONG 
252 words 
30 October 2000
Business Week 
46A 
No. 3705 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- Machine tools and related advanced manufacturing technologies have contributed nearly $1 trillion to the U.S. economy in the past five years, according to a new study by the Association of Manufacturing Technology. In addition to fueling a good portion of America's economic expansion in the past 10 years, advances in manufacturing technology have helped reduce the peaks and valleys of the U.S. business cycle. The study indicates that better machine tools have shortened process times and aided just-in-time inventory management procedures, thus smoothing out those bumpy inventory fluctuations. 

-- The North American Commission for Environmental Cooperation, an intergovernmental organization set up by Canada, the U.S., and Mexico, blames U.S. copper smelting plants, waste incinerators, and cement kilns for dioxins in the northern Canadian territory of Nunavut. Inuit in the area have more than twice the normal level of dioxins in their blood. The report found that 35% of the dioxins came from 10 sources, 9 of them in the U.S. 

-- Another nanoscopic step forward for advanced materials: Scientists at Drexel University and elsewhere have discovered a previously unknown type of carbon crystal called graphite polyhedral crystals (GPC). They're exquisitely small: Thousands would fit in the width of a human hair. The crystals have nanotube cores and outer surfaces that form perfect needles, pyramids, rods, and rings. They show promise for a variety of uses, ranging from rotors for nano-size electric motors to probes for atomic force microscopes. 

Document bw00000020010804dwau004nq


More Like This

 Article 163 *******************    



Departments 

Digital Rules 

BY Rich Karlgaard 
907 words 
27 November 2000
Forbes 
051 
English
Copyright 2000 Forbes Inc. 

IN THE CHIPS 

MORE OFTEN THAN YOU THINK, THE SHARE PRICE OF A TECH alpha-dog like Intel slumps more than 50%. History says bet the ranch. Intel got up one morning in September and took a massive dump, shriveling from 76 to 35. It now hangs around 47 and reflects a not-absurd 31 P/E ratio. Contrast that with the Old Economy champ, General Electric. Not having Intel's growth prospects, and with Jack Welch still playing coy about his retirement and successor, GE nevertheless sports a P/E of 44. Intel is every bit the blue-chipper and a third cheaper. 

Texas Instruments soared to a split-adjusted $100 in March. But then TI did its best to resemble an airplane with an engine out. It nosed over into a steep glide that lasted eight months, before hitting 35 in mid-October. TI has since stabilized at 46. Its P/E is an Intel-like 29. This seems conservative compared with the huge growth potential of TI's communications chips. 

Finally there is National Semiconductor. Back in March it hit 86, then began a fearful ride of swoons, stalls, seat drops and a fat watersplash or two. Three-fourths of NSM's market cap evaporated over the summer and fall, a collapse more often seen in the dot-com league. But unlike the dot-coms, NSM still has an "E" sitting under its "P." And no tricky parentheses around that E, either. ("That's not a parenthesis," a puffed up dot-commer informed me last March when his ginseng/Viagra/toenail polish e-store fetched a billion-buck valuation. "Heck, that's a smiley face!") National is free of smiley faces; its P/E ratio is a sourpuss 6.5. 

Intel, Texas Instruments and National Semiconductor are buys. 

Rejoice! 

To repeat our oft-repeated theme: The Big Three sectors of the Internet era are chips, storage and digital pipes. The market-cap leaders, at the moment, are, respectively, Intel, EMC and Cisco. We love these sectors. When you study the physics--or failing to do that, at least listen to people, such as George Gilder, Ray Kurzweil, Carver Mead, et al., who really know their electrons and photons--you'll arrive at a mind-blowing conclusion: The potential of these Big Three is without limits. Chips, storage and pipes are headed toward impossibly large performance numbers. At impossibly cheap unit prices. And ... at ever-accelerating rates. 

That's only the first miracle. 

The second miracle is the infinite-demand elasticity associated with the Big Three. It works like this. Double the speed or memory of a chip, and what happens? Does a sudden "oversupply" of speed or memory torpedo prices on a per mips or per RAM basis? Yes! Prices plummet. Do suppliers of chips see this as bad news, as manufacturers of, say, electricity or potato chips or automobile tires might? No! They rejoice. 

Huh? When speed or memory prices drop, computers consume more of the good stuff and, hence, get more powerful. A thousand software developers, from giant Microsoft down to the guy or gal in a garage, immediately begin writing code that takes advantage of the new powers. Thus do speed and memory pave the way for new or better software. Software always soaks up chip power. Always. Take it to the bank. Software always soaks up storage and pipes, too. 

My own view is that the world will never have enough chips, storage and big fat pipes until we can all say: "Beam me up, Scotty." No doubt the MIT Media Labs can tell you the specs required and the month and year this marvel will arrive. 

Fewer Disruptions 

Seers like George Gilder (www.gildertech.com) tell us that chips now are the slowest evolving of the Big Three. They double speeds or memory capacity at the same price-point every 18 months. Storage devices double every 12 months. Bitspeeds over fiber double every six months or so. 

Chips, thus, are the sluggard in the field. So why buy chip stocks? Because they have a longer history and greater predictability in their favor. Sudden disruptions are less likely to occur as long as the basic chip materials are silicon and wires. All bets are off in the next decade or so, when molecular or quantum computing in combination with nanotubes takes off. But that hardly concerns today's investor. 

Also, stock prices of chip companies don't escape earth's gravity. Again, look at the modest P/Es of Intel, TI and National. Yes, it's true that fabless chipsters like Broadcom can touch the moon and the stars. I like Broadcom as a business--Henry Nicholas, 41, may be the best CEO of his generation--but Broadcom's P/E is a crazy 427, and its price-to-sales is crazier still at 60. That's dot-com territory. But, then, a chipster without its own fab is much like a dot-com. 

One more cheap chipster to consider: Cypress Semiconductor. It hit a high of 58 this spring, and now it's at 38. It has a long, stable history; a tough bird of a CEO, T.J. Rodgers; and a blue-collar P/E of 20. Cypress is now a leader in the booming wireless market. 

To see past Digital Rules columns, visit our Web site at www.forbes.com/karlgaard. 

Document fb00000020010805dwbr00010


More Like This

 Article 164 *******************    


Industrial Management & Technology/R&D In America 

Look Who's Doing R&D Big corporate labs are cutting back on research when they don't see a quick payoff. But plenty of small companies are filling the gap. 

Gene Bylinsky 
8,180 words 
27 November 2000
Fortune Magazine 
Industrial Management & Technology 
232[C]+ [Not Available In All Editions] 
Issue: November 27, 2000 Vol. 142 No. 13 
English
(Copyright 2000) 

Bell Labs gave birth to the transistor. And the laser. And motion pictures. And long-range TV broadcasts. And real-time language translation. And on and on, so that over time this venerable institution rightly became known as America's invention factory. But the next transistor may well come from a small company you've never heard of. 

Meet Mark Reed (pictured at left), 45, co-founder of Molecular Electronics Corp. and a digital hero in the making. Four decades after Intel co-founder Bob Noyce embedded Bell Labs' transistors in silicon to create the first manufacturable integrated circuit, Reed is leading an effort to put computer chips in the shade by making so- called molecular transistors, which are thousands of times smaller and 100 times faster than their silicon predecessors. Incorporated into tiny supercomputers, these new transistors could bring unprecedented intelligence just about anywhere. 

The molecular transistor is only one of a number of epochal discoveries that are emerging from small entrepreneurial companies. No longer do the likes of Bell Labs and GE point the way to technology's future. Big corporations are cutting back on basic research to concentrate on shorter-term goals. More than anytime in the past, new outfits are springing up all over the place to drive technology forward. They have scored with other big breakthroughs such as these: 

--Materials Innovation Inc. of West Lebanon, N.H., has not only drastically reduced the size of a press that makes industrial parts from metal powder but has also developed new powders for production of components that increase the efficiency of electric motors by 30%. 

--Bios Group of Santa Fe has used complexity science--the study of such seemingly far-fetched subjects as how foraging ants find food-- to improve supply chains and factory outputs, putting Procter & Gamble on track to cut inventory by 25%. 

--Catalytica Combustion Systems Inc. of Mountain View, Calif., is equipping electricity-producing gas turbines with a catalyst that eliminates pollutants before they form. 

Corporate R&D isn't dead, to be sure. In a few exceptional cases, such as Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) and Du Pont, basic research continues. But ever since the cost-cutting fad triggered a bloodbath at the big labs in the mid-1980s, which saw thousands of researchers unceremoniously forced to leave for university and other jobs, corporate R&D has been shifting more and more from the "R" part of the equation toward the "D." (The Defense Department didn't help by scaling back its R&D spending, either.) 

The change in priorities has continued even though overall R&D spending has rebounded. According to the Industrial Research Institute, an organization of FORTUNE 1,000 research directors, corporate R&D budgets increased from $97 billion in 1994 to $166 billion last year. Yet the innovative content of corporate research has been greatly diminished in favor of work that supports short- term goals, such as improvement of existing products. A few companies simply closed their R&D labs; others atomized central labs by assigning the researchers to divisions. Says Arthur Chester, president of the Hughes Research Laboratory in Malibu, Calif.: "Basic research has been on the decline in large organizations since the mid- 1980s, as more companies have routed more of their research funding through their business units, which have more specific goals." His lab, once part of Hughes Aircraft, now serves as a corporate research facility for Raytheon and Boeing (which own it jointly), and also does research for GM. Adds Chester: "The decline has been more pronounced in some industries, such as aerospace and electronics, than in others, such as chemicals and pharmaceuticals." 

Companies with R&D labs are trying to expand and enrich their activities in other ways. Paul Sheldon, former R&D director at machine-tool maker Giddings & Lewis, says, "Corporate R&D has both opened up and shut down." By "shut down," Sheldon means the diminution of internal research activities. By "opened up," he means greater collaboration with outside research organizations, not only small companies but also national labs, private research institutions, and universities. (See accompanying story, "Where R&D Is Thriving.") 

As a result, MIT, the nation's leading research university, has seen a flip-flop in its sources of financial support. MIT used to get two-thirds of its outside support from Uncle Sam and one-third from industry. Now the proportions have been reversed. While five years ago MIT received $56 million in research funds from corporations for sponsored research on campus, last year the figure reached a record $73 million. 

But purchasing research conducted by others is no panacea. "It's been my experience that buying from the outside is risky unless you have enough in-house expertise to be a smart buyer," says Hughes Lab's Chester. "And technology developed elsewhere--for example, in a university--usually needs adaptation and additional development before you can use it in your business." In-house expertise is getting harder to come by too. According to Karl Koster, director of corporate relations at MIT, "Big companies used to have their pick of MIT students. Now they are having a hell of a time recruiting them." 

With the reorientation of industrial labs toward immediate results, the fear is that the U.S. may never duplicate the kind of critical mass achieved in years past by Bell Labs, where top scientists in different disciplines collaborated closely with one another. Corporations are shunning basic research because results are unpredictable and cannot be prescribed. This year's three winners of the Nobel Prize in chemistry discovered largely by accident how plastics could conduct electricity. That's the way high-temperature superconductivity was discovered as well, along with many other advances. 

To be sure, basic research continues in academia, and the U.S. boasts the world's best research universities. But even Arno Penzias, a convert to "practical" science in his later years as research director at Bell Labs, scoffs at the idea that part-time research professors assisted by part-time graduate students can match the brilliant staff of the old Bell Labs. Universities are still split into departments in which, for example, physicists seldom work with chemists, while progress in science most often occurs at the intersection of disciplines. 

Luckily, America has a great history of responding to challenges with vitality and resilience. New players are stepping forward to create innovative technologies outside corporate labs. 

Technology-savvy venture capitalists, both in and outside Silicon Valley, are eager to play a role in forming new R&D machines. They've just about had their fill of helping start those sometimes shallow dot-coms. Explains Yogen Dalal, a partner in the Mayfield Fund of Menlo Park, Calif.: "There has been little fundamental technology in the B2C, B2B, and other applications startups." Instead, these companies trade on their knowledge of particular industries, using their insights to make plain old marketing land grabs. "As we return to fundamentals," adds Dalal, "VCs are looking for the next wave of real technology." 

Renowned veteran R&D executive George Heilmeier, who has served as director of the fabled Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) as well as director of R&D at Texas Instruments, and more recently as CEO of Telcordia Technologies (formerly Bellcore), notes that the shift to venture-backed small companies in many ways addresses problems that have always plagued corporate R&D. Among them: Many CEOs don't understand R&D and delegate responsibility for it to the research director, who often doesn't participate in major corporate decisions. Big companies frequently view R&D as an expense rather than an investment. Division managers at large corporations are often in conflict with R&D directors because central R&D is outside their control. 

VCs know what it takes to commercialize technology in a competitive marketplace. Today they have a great spectrum of small companies to pick from. Everyone and his cousin who has anything to do with R&D is trying to start a technology company, collectively spawning offspring as if they were egg-laying octopuses. 

But it's not just trend-spotting venture capitalists at work here. High-tech startups are being formed by national labs too. Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, for instance, boasts that it has launched 41 companies (with VC help) since 1994. Private research institutions are also playing a role in company formation, in the process creating a financial lifeline at a time of scarce funding for basic research. SRI International and its subsidiary Sarnoff Laboratories have founded 31 small companies. Some of these initiatives are beginning to pay off big, not only technologically but financially as well. Battelle of Columbus, Ohio, the largest nonprofit research institution, recently collected $148 million in stock for its minority interest in a small fiber-optics company that was sold to a bigger one. 

Consulting companies are financing R&D ventures as well. Bios Group, for example, owes its origin to, of all entities, the accounting firm Ernst & Young, now known as Gemini Cap Ernst & Young. Christopher Meyer, the outstanding director of Ernst & Young's center for business innovation in Cambridge, Mass., became enamored of complexity theory in the 1990s and persuaded his company to help start Bios Group in 1997; Ernst & Young invested $5 million in return for 40% of the stock. Since then Bios has attracted other investors, such as P&G and Ford Motor. "Our mission," says Meyer, talking about his center, "is to anticipate and shape the future, like the old Bell Labs did, only on a very small scale." Some new companies are self- financed. To start Materials Innovation, Alan Beane, a former CPA who made millions from the sale of his computer accessories company, dipped into his own pocket. 

The success enjoyed by the research startups has not gone unnoticed by large corporations. Many have recognized that in their panic to align R&D to immediate needs, they have cut the future out of the equation, and they are now beginning to form venture firms of their own to conduct research. Heilmeier, the former DARPA director, is encouraged by this trend. "The story here is that corporate R&D is breaking out of its mold," he says. "The venture companies remove the problems endemic in big R&D organizations." The small fry are able to focus much more sharply on the task at hand. And some big-company scientists and engineers assigned to run corporate spinoffs reap undreamed-of rewards when the companies go public or are sold. (Company executives don't like to talk about this, apparently for fear of agitating scientists and engineers who didn't participate in the payout.) 

Lucent Technologies, the parent of Bell Labs and one of the record setters in the number of companies spawned (31 since 1997), finds the technique so attractive that it recently reeled back three small companies into Lucent after they had sufficiently advanced technologies in Internet telephony, digital video broadcasting, and electroplating parts for electronics. But Lucent was willing to be patient. Back in the late 1970s and early 1980s, when "intrapreneurship" was all the rage at big companies, the idea generally failed because corporations were unwilling to leave their offspring alone. "Today," says Thomas M. Uhlman, president of the new- ventures fund at Lucent, "companies are much more relaxed. And as a result, they benefit more." 

The research labs are not ready to cede the future to their upstart brethren, but even in achieving a radical breakthrough, their motives and methods are in stark contrast to the ways of the past. Perhaps the place one would least expect to find a tightly knit entrepreneurial team is inside Bell Labs. Yet David Bishop, director of micromechanics research there, led a group of 14 scientists and engineers who worked day and night last year to come up with the first optical switch, the Lambda Router. Optical switches direct photons to their destination without converting them into electronic pulses, as conventional switches and routers do. They are ten times faster than their electronic counterparts and, claims Lucent, 25% cheaper to operate. With the explosive growth of traffic on the Internet threatening to create gridlock, optical switches are widely expected to replace electronic ones. The Lambda Router will start carrying traffic across the Atlantic on Global Crossing's fiber- optic cable by the end of this year. By being first, Lucent hopes to capture a big share of a market that industry analysts say will reach $4 billion a year two years from now, and challenge router-colossus Cisco Systems in the process. 

Bishop's team has operated very much like a small, independent company. He proudly shows off a tiny factory inside Bell Labs where Ph.D.s work as high-paid assemblers, putting those switches together. One factor that energized his scientists, Bishop adds, was Cisco CEO John Chambers' description of a Bell Labs-designed Lucent telephone as having been built by "dinosaurs." Says Bishop: "He probably doesn't know that dinosaurs were warm-blooded and fast-moving. Now our mission is to kill Cisco." What could better illustrate the dramatic change in the nature of the big R&D organizations? 

Good work will continue to emerge from corporate labs, but the shift in brainpower means that more and more of the really striking advances will come from small, entrepreneurial ventures. Below are some of them. 

Molecular Electronics Corp. The Transistor Of Tomorrow 

When Bell Labs invented the transistor in 1947, it planted the seeds of the First Digital Revolution, which transformed business and industry as well as our lives. The Second Digital Revolution will spring from the realm of the invisible, and it may come from a company that didn't exist until last December. In contrast to the big corporate muscle behind Bell Labs, Molecular Electronics Corp. is the creation of scientists at three universities and a grab bag of businesspeople from disparate walks of life. Co-founder Mark Reed, who is also chairman of the electrical-engineering department at Yale, started the company with colleagues at Rice University and Penn State, and with the backing of a group of Chicago investors. 

The CEO is Chicago entrepreneur Harvey Plotnick, 59, who studied physics at the University of Chicago and founded the largest U.S. book publishing company outside New York City, Contemporary Books, which he sold to the Tribune Co. in 1993. Molecular Electronics is building off-campus labs to house development teams in each of the three university towns. In two years, Reed promises, the teams will demonstrate the first working prototype of a molecular transistor. 

Each transistor will consist of a single molecule of plastic-like material that, unlike today's semiconductors, will be made in flasks. The new transistors will be thousands of times smaller than their silicon predecessors and will work 100 times faster. Eventually they will take digital electronics into uncharted terrain where walnut- sized supercomputers will spread digital intelligence of a degree unattainable today throughout factories, offices, cars, and homes. 

The startup is the outgrowth of a decade-long effort that culminated last year when Reed and his co-workers became the first to show that specially designed molecules can be switched on and off with a trickle of electric current. A small charge induces slight changes in the configuration of the molecules, blocking current flow. When voltage is cut off, the molecules spring back to their original shape, letting the flow of current resume. These on-off capabilities qualify a molecule as a transmitter of the ones and zeros of computer language. 

Connecting these molecular switches, which are visible only through an electron microscope, is one of the big challenges facing Reed. Short of solving that problem, he envisages an intermediate molecular electronic circuit in which standard, ultrathin wires used in silicon chips will connect colonies of molecules set up in tiny depressions in a circuitboard. 

Even the first such circuits should be a lot cheaper to make than silicon chips. That's because production of molecular electronic devices involves a kind of chemistry well established in the pharmaceuticals industry. Reed and his colleagues start with familiar compounds, such as carbon molecules used to make plastics. They then add reagents that bond with the target molecules at specific sites, gradually forming molecules with the desired electronic structure. 

Next they attach a molecular fragment with a high affinity for gold to the bottom of the molecules. Finally Reed and his associates dip boards with a gold surface into a beaker rich with the molecules- -and presto, the molecules attach themselves to the gold surface by the millions, lining up like trees in a microminiature orchard. This self-assembly is what should make molecular chips a lot cheaper to produce than their silicon predecessors. 

Although big obstacles to mass-producing such devices and linking them into working systems still loom, Reed and his associates are confident of achieving that feat. One reason is that Reed knows a lot more than most university professors about submicroscopic manufacturing. Before Yale nabbed him ten years ago, he was a star researcher at Texas Instruments, where he pioneered the construction of devices even smaller than molecular transistors--quantum electronic devices, in which an electrostatic force confines a single electron into a structure called a quantum dot. In its quantum state, where it exists as both a particle and a wave, the electron sloshes about like water in a glass. Molecules, in contrast, are larger and easier to handle. 

So far, Reed and his team have been able to demonstrate electronic responses only in single molecules--not enough of them, if strung together, to constitute a chip. But even in the earliest experimental stage, they have shown that a molecular switch, when used as a random- access memory device, can retain its data for nearly ten minutes. Silicon random-access memory devices, on the other hand, must be recharged every few milliseconds to hold their data. The new transistors also have a huge advantage over silicon devices in the amount of heat they produce. Molecular devices consume electric power at a trickle and hence generate 100 times less heat than their silicon counterparts. The latest microprocessors emit about 100 watts of power--as much as an average light bulb. Most need fans to cool them. 

Who needs the transistor of tomorrow? Just about everybody. Although silicon has proved amazingly resilient as a material for building chips with ever smaller transistors, physical and financial limitations are expected to catch up with silicon in the next decade or so. The physical reality is that Moore's law--which holds that the number of transistors on a sliver of silicon will double every two years--is getting increasingly difficult to obey. The law was postulated by Intel co-founder Gordon Moore 35 years ago, at the beginning of the semiconductor revolution. To keep the law in effect, individual transistors on a chip would have to be shrunk to the point of invisibility, with each transistor holding a charge of only eight electrons, compared with thousands today. Such a minuscule number would be hard to confine, and leakage of electrons from one transistor to the next would make silicon chips unworkable. So experts expect Moore's law to expire by 2020. 

Even before then, the lesser-known Moore's second law could cause insurmountable problems. This one postulates that the cost of building a chip fabrication facility, known colloquially as a fab, will double every three years. Since a fab already costs as much as $2.5 billion, in a decade or so the cost would soar to an astounding $30 billion to $50 billion--or 10% of the estimated revenues of the semiconductor industry in 2010 just for a single plant. The cost of building a molecular-device fab is hard to estimate now because of many unknowns, but Reed says that if it matched the price tag of today's chip fabs, "we'd be in the wrong business." Suffice it to say he thinks the cost will be considerably less. 

Meanwhile, where are the large semiconductor makers as far as molecular devices are concerned? Pretty much fast asleep. The only big company with a significant initiative in molecular electronics is Hewlett-Packard. Not only does HP's participation in this field support the notion that imaginative research can make a difference to the survival prospects of a corporation, it also throws down the gauntlet to competitors that remain on the sidelines. HP's eloquent chief scientist, Joel Birnbaum, established the program in molecular electronics four years ago because, he says, "I wanted to show the other big companies that it's possible to continue to do basic research." 

Birnbaum sees eerie parallels today with the 1950s, when CEOs of many of the large electronics companies that made vacuum tubes believed the tubes held an unassailable competitive position against the newly invented transistor. So far, Birnbaum has been shouting in a vacuum where other large companies are concerned. This year he and a colleague wrote in the science journal Physics Today that "...many researchers and corporate executives seem to have a blind optimism that somehow [the problems facing silicon will be resolved]. We think we cannot risk it." 

Materials Innovation Inc. The Shrinking Metal-Powder Press 

Amid the white pine, poplar, and birch forests of central New Hampshire, three unlikely entrepreneurs --a CPA, a sculptor, and a government scientist--are rewriting manufacturing's future. They have taken the enormous press that turns powdered metal into industrial parts and have shrunk it from the size of an up-ended tractor- trailer to that of a small refrigerator. They have also created particles of coated steel and other metals for the manufacture of new parts that are giving products like motors a heretofore unattainable compactness and efficiency. 

The metal-powder industry is an important part of manufacturing. According to the Metal Powder Industries Federation, in 1999 the industry produced $5 billion of components that go into the making of products like valves, pumps, and drive gears. Pressed-powder parts are made by filling a die with powdered metal and then rapidly compressing the particles with a punch press that delivers a million pounds of pressure. This is a cheaper and faster way of making components than carving them from blocks of metal using grinding and milling machines. But the gigantic presses designed more than 50 years ago suffer from geriatric diseases. Sometimes the parts they make crack, often the components are not uniform enough in structure, and certain parts can't even be made on them. 

Into the breach leapt Materials Innovation Inc. (MII) of West Lebanon, N.H. The brainchild of entrepreneur and former accountant Alan Beane, this little company had been working since its founding in 1985 to develop new powdered metals, coating the microscopic particles in novel ways to assure production of better parts. A few years ago Beane decided that big opportunities lay in making composite pressed parts for electronics and other uses. He brought in his brother Glenn, a Syracuse University-trained sculptor and an expert in metallurgy. The Beanes hired prominent materials scientist David Lashmore from the National Institute of Standards and Technology. 

The trio started making what they knew were superior metal powders intended to produce so-called soft magnetic parts for electric motors and electronic devices. Unlike the permanently magnetized hard magnet you used in school to attract metal particles, soft magnetic materials become magnetic only after a current is passed through them. 

MII acquired one of those gigantic conventional metal-powder presses. But when the three pioneers tried to make parts from their new materials on the big press, they found that it wasn't precise enough to give them the tolerances they needed. Says MII President Glenn Beane: "We were stopped dead in our tracks." 

Two years ago the MII team put aside work on metal powders, deciding that they needed a new type of press. Software-savvy Glenn Beane led the design effort, which he finds as satisfying as creating sculptures. To build the new machine, Beane and the other MII wizards applied computer intelligence where brute force had reigned, embracing principles that were new to their industry. 

Unlike the huge old presses, the small MII press is entirely computer controlled, so anyone who knows how to run a PC can operate the machine. This will let manufacturers tap a large pool of workers, not just highly specialized--and scarce--experienced press operators. By emphasizing software controls, MII has also introduced another novelty to the industry: Its presses can be diagnosed and run remotely around the clock, bringing the digital factory closer to reality. The new press is more precise too. It weighs the powder for each part, while the old presses measured powder by volume. The MII press distributes the metal particles more evenly inside the die and compresses the powder with twice the force of conventional presses, resulting in denser and more precisely engineered parts that require no additional machining. 

MII's powder press lets manufacturers avoid costly downtime as well. Unlike existing presses, which tower 18 feet above the ground and extend six feet beneath the surface, the small MII press can be moved around on a forklift and plugged into production lines at special docking stations, which will house the hydraulic system that powers the press. When manufacturers finish a production run of a component, they can unplug the MII press and hook up another one programmed to make a different part. The process takes minutes. To switch production runs using a conventional press, the partmaker must take its multimillion-dollar machine out of action for days to retool it. MII will also get manufacturers up and running more quickly. It will deliver a press in weeks, vs. 12 to 18 months for a conventional press. And unlike the larger machines, MII's presses will be available to lease. By year's end, CEO Alan Beane expects ten of its presses to be in use at MII and customer sites. 

MII promises to reshape the metal-powder industry not only by letting factories operate around the clock with a minimum of workers but also by making the plants smaller and cleaner. Old-economy metal- powder plants are usually full of dust and noise. MII's first machine operates in a spotless, high-ceilinged, airy facility at company headquarters. 

On this pioneering press, MII is making parts for a novel electric motor used to drive water-purification and other industrial pumps, produced by SHURflo Manufacturing Co. of Santa Ana, Calif., a unit of Wisconsin Energy Corp. The motor part, called a stator, could not have been made to the user's specifications by any other manufacturing technique. A stator serves as the supporting structure for a coil of wire that is connected to an electrical source. When current flows, the coil creates a magnetic field in the stator, which transfers the energy to a part called a rotor that does the desired work, such as turning a shaft. 

MII's stator is made from a specially coated iron powder with a uniformly dense structure, which makes the stator more productive. Motors using MII's stator turn more electricity into work instead of dissipating it as heat, and can pack more horsepower into a smaller volume. SHURflo says its new motor is 30% more efficient than competitors' older motors. MII's soft magnetic powder, which consists of ceramic-coated iron particles, can also be used to make high- performance electromechanical valves, parts of automotive fuel- injection systems, and many other components. 

For another customer, Dudley Lock, a major lock manufacturer in Hemmingford, Quebec, MII makes the plunger, a critical part of a padlock. A weak plunger compromises the security of a lock. Dudley's plungers are made on the new press from MII's sinter-hardened steel alloy powder. The MII part can withstand more than twice the force that plungers made of traditional powdered steel can. 

Larger versions of the MII press will be able to make much bigger parts, including car doors. Lanny Pease, who runs Powder Tech Associates, a consulting firm in North Andover, Mass., calls MII's new press "without a doubt a major advance of the past 50 years." Adds Woody Haddix, president of Helsel, a division of Hawk Powder Metal Group in Campbellsburg, Ind., which makes parts for the hydraulics industry: "[MII has] revolutionized the design and application of powdered-metal compacting technology." When Alan Beane calls his press a new-economy manufacturing system, he has supporters. 

Bios Group Simplifying Complexity 

What do the apparently chaotic pathways of foraging ants have to do with improving the allocation of resources in a manufacturing plant? Or the application of genetic algorithms that follow the laws of natural selection--the survival of the fittest--with boosting the efficiency of a company's supply chain? Or the use of specialized bits of software code called agents with determining the number of models an automaker should sell next year? 

Plenty, it turns out. In the shadow of the spectacular Sangre de Cristo Mountains of New Mexico, Stuart Kauffman and his colleagues at Bios Group delve into the fascinating subject of complexity theory. Bios Group is a pioneering Santa Fe company that applies biological solutions to business problems. Most notably its software has successfully used ant algorithms--rules that imitate the movement of ants--to improve supply chains at a host of prominent companies. Among its clients: Procter & Gamble, Ford, Unilever, Boeing, and Texas Instruments. 

Ant algorithms are math formulas that are incorporated into software. They stem from observations by naturalists that when ants start looking for food, they send out a number of scouts. As a scout treads along, it lays a trail of chemicals called pheromones that its fellow ants can recognize. The first ant that returns after a successful hunt is presumed to have found the food source closest to the ant heap. It has marked this route with pheromones twice--coming and going. Other ants will now follow this preferred pathway. If something should block the route or if the food source is exhausted, the ants will follow alternate routes to more distant food sources, marked by other scouts that took longer to return to the nest. 

Despite the apparent chaos of life in the ant heap, individual ants demonstrate flexibility in response to changing events. Older, more experienced ants are usually the foragers. But if food sources dry up, the experienced scouts are joined by younger nursemaid ants that can adapt to a new role when the colony needs to bulk up the numbers of the search party. In an ant algorithm, software agents (bits of software representing individual ants) perform rerouting automatically, similar to the way ants readjust their paths to food sources. The algorithms mirror the fact that cooperation in an ant colony is largely self-organized. The formulas help identify good solutions to static problems and can quickly adapt when circumstances change. 

Ant algorithms were introduced to Bios in 1998 by French scientist Eric Bonabeau, now president of EuroBios. Bonabeau had earlier devised the algorithms to help optimize the routing of British Telecom's network. Bios has several patents pending on its algorithms. The company has also applied genetic algorithms, agent- based modeling, data mining (detection of patterns in large databases), optimization (seeking the best possible solution), and other components of complexity science to projects at more than 30 companies. 

At Unilever, for instance, Bios used its algorithms to identify the most efficient allocation of manufacturing resources. Under Bios' direction, the company changed the location of mixing and storage tanks and packing machines to best cope with breakdowns and to meet fluctuating customer demands in the shortest amount of time. Kauffman, chief scientist at Bios, says, "We were able to tell Unilever to put more redundancy into its manufacturing system--to install machines that are multifunctional, machines that can do three different jobs." Instead of making products sequentially in a fixed order, with one machine passing the products to another machine, Bios suggested intermingling production schedules. Unilever is now installing Bios scheduling software on top of its new manufacturing software; the company expects a big productivity payoff next year. 

Ant algorithms are especially useful when corporations are having trouble identifying the most efficient sequence for a series of actions. To help Southwest Airlines reduce cargo handling bottlenecks, for example, Bios simulated the destinations, shipments, freight-house operations, and ramp personnel of the airline's cargo operations. The software agents used in the simulation first followed the established rules for controlling the flow of freight throughout the network. One of those rules called for loading the freight on the first plane going in the right direction. 

The Bios software showed that following this rule slavishly leads to unnecessary handling and bottlenecks at certain locations--the precise cause of most delays. Bios came up with a different rule: "Try to put the freight on an airplane that is landing in the destination city within the delivery deadline." This rule could result in more circuitous routing, but it sharply reduced freight handling--and that was a greater expense than air miles. With its new software model, Bios predicted that Southwest could cut overnight transfer weight by 71% and overall freight-handling labor by 20%. Field trials bore out the forecast. Southwest implemented the new rules across its system last year for an annual saving in labor costs of $10 million. 

Procter & Gamble came to Bios in 1998 for help in cutting its inventory. The $38-billion-a-year giant had already achieved a 50% reduction and was looking for another 25 percentage points. Bios found that the key to further inventory reduction was "constraint relaxation"--that is, the removal of restrictions such as never sending out trucks that aren't fully loaded. Introducing flexibility into both delivery schedules and the size of truckloads worked wonders. 

Bios scientists found that P&G's seemingly logical policy of sending out only full trucks actually created disruptions along the supply chain as trucks waited until they were filled. With such delays, P&G's greatest fear came true: supermarket shelves that were empty of its key products, like Tide and Comet. Likening the flow of a supply chain to that of a river, Kauffman says the "lumps" introduced by the full trucks were like rocks that disturb water flow. Letting some trucks travel with partial loads and making delivery times more flexible removed the lumps. 

P&G completed the first field trials of the Bios system in September and found that results exceeded expectations. So impressed was P&G that it recently became a part owner of Bios by investing $5 million. More trials are scheduled for December. 

In an ongoing project for Ford, Bios is trying a novel approach to help the automaker decide how many models it should be selling and what their attributes should be. Today Ford uses many sources of information to gain insight into customer preferences, including focus groups, sales figures, J.D. Power surveys, and more recently click-stream data. The problem is that data from different sources often conflict, and no one source is inherently superior. A further problem with focus groups is that consumers' answers about their preferences don't always reflect what they would actually buy. "If I'm in a focus group and I'm asked what I would purchase," says Bios marketing director Christine McLorrain, "I'm not constrained by my pocketbook, my husband, my need for a place to put the dog. I'm more likely to answer with my fantasy car. Since dealers are interested in actual purchases to keep inventory low, the information gleaned from focus groups is not very helpful." 

Taking such shortcomings into consideration, Bios scientists are building software agents programmed with buying characteristics-- that is, values and preferences for particular vehicle features. If you could talk to one of the software agents, it could tell you exactly how much it would be willing to pay for air conditioning or four-wheel drive. The software agents will give Ford insights that it won't have to psychoanalyze. The automaker will be able to focus on building the cars that are most likely to attract buyers, rather than trying to appeal to everybody with a multiplicity of models. 

In other projects, Bios Group has shown Disneyland how to get people to take more rides in less time. It helped Temple-Inland figure out what timber it should bring into its mills based on lumber prices. And it has improved maintenance scheduling for United Airlines. 

These diverse Bios successes show how a small firm with a clever idea can point to a new way of thinking about corporations and other complex systems--and how insights into the ways that simple events influence one another can help us understand a complicated whole. Its thesis is that in an increasingly connected economy, businesses should not follow the rules of the Industrial Age, which depended on control and predictability. Complexity theory instead calls for self- organization, distributed control, and the study of so-called emergent behavior--actions that emerge, or become predictable, only when looking at an entire system, not at its parts, like the flocking of birds or the foraging of ants or the appearance of cargo bottlenecks at a particular airport. The new science seeks to give companies robust new approaches for managing rapid growth and change. 

Bios' thesis, furthermore, holds that as connections proliferate in the new economy, it begins to resemble a living ecology. Where guesswork has traditionally prevailed in scheduling production or deliveries, science-based adaptive scheduling, borrowed from the supposedly lowly ants, will help companies become efficient as they make products in smaller lots to respond better to consumer demands. 

Applications of complexity science will eventually lead to what Chris Meyer, a co-founder of Bios, calls inanimate evolution. For example, when a motorist spins his wheels in the snow, the car automatically signals a customer-service representative for help by cell phone. The rep responds with a software download that upgrades the traction control system, and the car drives away. In the complexity world, predicts Meyer, software agents will deal with other software agents, arranging such things as complex B2B transactions faster and maybe better than people can. 

Catalytica Combustion Systems Inc. Clean Turbines To Make Electricity 

Most big companies that make gas turbines for the production of electricity go about the cleanup of noxious exhaust gases in a backward way. They pass gaseous emissions through a shedlike "smokehouse" where other poisonous chemicals scrub out the pollutants. It took a small Silicon Valley company to figure out how to clean up the gases at the logical spot--where combustion starts. The elegant technique not only eliminates those after-the-fact smokehouses but also produces power in a manner that is almost pollution-free, and more efficient than the conventional technology. 

For more than a year now, a turbine equipped with a small catalytic converter from Catalytica Combustion Systems of Mountain View, Calif., a subsidiary of Catalytica Inc., has successfully operated in test mode at Silicon Valley Power, a municipally owned utility in nearby Santa Clara. The first commercial use of Catalytica's system will be at Enron's Pastoria energy plant near Bakersfield, Calif., where it will be fitted on six GE gas turbines. Three other turbines, made by Kawasaki, will soon be installed with Catalytica's technology at an electric plant in Massachusetts. Says Cliff Baxter, CEO of Enron North America: "Catalytica's technology offers an attractive alternative to traditional emission-control systems." 

The inventor of the clever new technique, which Catalytica calls Xonon Cool Combustion, is vice president and chief scientist Ralph A. Dalla Betta, 54. The centerpiece is a palladium-based catalyst that is incorporated into a package the size of an artillery shell and fitted into the side of a turbine. The catalyst works by reducing combustion temperature, thus almost totally eliminating the formation of nitrous oxide (NOx), the major ingredient of smog and other pollutants--without compromising the performance of the turbine. 

It hasn't been easy for Catalytica to get where it is. Dalla Betta first demonstrated the Xonon principle ten years ago. But a small company, notes Catalytica CEO Ricardo Levy, "often has to bridge the perception gap. It certainly takes longer than one expects." 

Now that large turbine makers such as GE, Kawasaki, Solar Turbines, and Rolls-Royce are beginning to use the Xonon Cool Combustion system in their products, Catalytica is looking to capture a big share of important new markets. One major opportunity is the distributed electrical power market, created as high-tech companies and municipalities set up their own generating facilities. They want to be assured of a reliable supply of electricity, and they don't want to worry about pollution. 

FEEDBACK: gbylinsky@fortunemail.com 

[SIDEBAR] 

Where R&D Is Thriving Research flourishes at the national labs, private institutes, and smart companies like Du Pont. 

There are always exceptions; not all big and medium-sized companies have scaled down research. Du Pont, for instance, is an island of thriving R&D because the company's business so depends on chemistry--and lately on biology and biotech. Its big central lab in Wilmington, Del., never experienced the painful cutbacks in research personnel that other large companies imposed on their labs in the mid- 1980s. Du Pont continues to devote about 10% of its $2 billion annual R&D budget to basic, university-like projects that look at least six years into the future; the rest goes into product development. 

A particular emphasis is biology, in which Joseph Miller, until recently R&D director, sees an "opportunity to create something unique." Besides keeping its central lab intact, Du Pont has assigned research teams to corporate divisions and has also widened its involvement with outside research groups. Du Pont has a five-year, $35 million joint program in biotech with MIT, and it employs 100 Russian chemists in Moscow and St. Petersburg, among other new connections. "With the changing complexity of science today," says Miller, "you've got to have tentacles around the world." 

Another outstanding lab is Xerox's renowned Palo Alto Research Center (PARC), where key elements of computing, such as the graphical user interface, were invented. Because more immediate product development takes place at five other Xerox research centers, PARC has the luxury of looking further into the future. Says PARC's former director John Seely Brown: "Our job is to hit home runs." 

Xerox has famously fallen on the base paths even when PARC reaches the seats. But PARC still has potential hits under development. Among them are small, self-diagnosing mobile robots that adjust their shapes and means of locomotion to the terrain they traverse. When circumstances demand, the robot can morph itself into a wheel. Possible applications: rescue missions in the wilderness. Also under way is a project to develop what Brown calls "digital clay"--a structural material, such as concrete, larded with tiny sensors and computers that permit self-diagnosis and reconfiguration in case of an earthquake--and another to perfect microscopic mirrors that can transmit signals from 200 beams of laser light simultaneously, a possible component of revolutionary new printers. 

Some smaller companies, such as Square D, a division of Schneider Electric, and Cutler-Hammer, a subsidiary of Eaton Corp., have been moving ahead smartly with major advances in electricity-controlling devices. Both recently introduced a so-called arc fault detector for homes, businesses, and factories. These detectors spot leakage of electricity from worn or damaged circuitry--the biggest cause of house fires--and cut off the current. 

With half its business in vehicles and locomotion, Eaton peers ten years ahead to imagine what power transmissions and engines will look like then. As part of that research, Eaton plans to launch an experimental truck powered by batteries in town and a diesel engine on the open road. "We're stretching the leading edge and trying to push Detroit along," says Stan Jaskolski, Eaton's R&D director. 

The biggest beneficiaries of the recent trend to outsource research are not-for-profit research institutes and, to a lesser extent, national laboratories. The largest nonprofit is Battelle of Columbus, Ohio, where Xerography originated. With 7,500 scientists and engineers on its worldwide staff, Battelle can deploy interdisciplinary teams to work on projects that few, if any, of today's corporate R&D labs can match. 

CEO Douglas E. Olesen has also redirected the institute to cash in on its intellectual property. Where in the past Battelle may have received $50,000 for a contract to help a company launch a $50- million-a-year product, now Battelle may develop the product itself in one of the small companies it has spawned. An outstanding example: Battelle Pulmonary Therapeutics, a for-profit venture that is conducting clinical trials on inhalation chemotherapy treatment for lung cancer. A team of 300 physicists, engineers, toxicologists, and other specialists helped develop its pioneering device. 

The second-largest nonprofit research institute is SRI International of Menlo Park, Calif., the birthplace of the computer mouse, among other advances. "What's different about R&D today," says SRI CEO Curtis Carlson, "is the emergence of venture companies and our interactions with VCs." Among SRI's star ventures: Nuance, a company that sells software to handle computerized speech; Intuitive Surgical, which is developing semi-robotic devices to help perform heart surgery without opening the chest cavity; and Orchid Bioscience, a biotech company. Carlson says that SRI is also funding research "that isn't going to show up for 20 years" in disciplines such as childhood learning and networks beyond the Internet. 

Basic research is also alive at the big national research labs, such as Sandia and Los Alamos. Sandia shines in microminiaturized devices for electronics and manufacturing, while Los Alamos has made important contributions to high-temperature superconductivity. In both cases, private enterprise is benefiting from the work, with research parks rising around the labs to house teams from participating companies. But the national labs' greatest contribution to industry remains their unique and enormous instruments of research, such as the baseball-field-sized photon source at Argonne National Lab, which lets engineers study the structure of physical and biological materials. And the huge supercomputers at Sandia and Los Alamos, besides helping design nuclear weapons, now tackle such industrial questions as how to design more-efficient petrochemical plants. 

--Gene Bylinsky 

Quote: Corporations are shunning basic research because results are unpredictable and cannot be prescribed. "With the changing complexity of science today, you've got to have tentacles around the world." "I wanted to show the other big companies that it's possible to continue to do basic research." 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN Physicist Mark Reed mixes up a batch of molecular transistors. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN Glenn Beane's little powder press, left, replaces the giant in the middle. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN With Catalytica's technology, this turbine unit won't produce noxious gas. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN Reed of Molecular Electronics makes transistors in an invisible realm. COLOR PHOTO: MARK REED Magnified five million times in this model, molecular transistors holding a charge glow like fireflies. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN Grassroots innovators David Lashmore (left) and Alan and Glenn Beane are revolutionizing the making of metal parts. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN This new stator makes motors 30% more efficient. COLOR PHOTO: DANIEL PEEBLES Bios Group chief scientist Stuart Kauffman finds order in chaos. COLOR PHOTO: RICHARD LA VAL--ANIMALS ANIMALS From studies of foraging ants, Bios created algorithms that improve corporate supply chains. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN Ralph Dalla Betta's clean turbine supplies power for Santa Clara, Calif. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN At SRI, Curtis Carlson's rig can record signals from neurons. COLOR PHOTO: RANDY MONTOYA--SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES At Sandia Labs, Mark Smith tests a device to coat engine blocks for GM. COLOR PHOTO: RANDY MONTOYA--SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES Small robots under development at Sandia will help inspect gas pipelines. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN PATRICE O'BRIEN Battelle created these mockups of a motor housing for a weed trimmer. 


Document fortu00020010806dwbr001bp


More Like This

 Article 165 *******************    



Science & Technology: NEW MATERIALS 

IT'S A NANO WORLD Manipulating molecules can create tomorrow's miracle materials 

BY OTIS PORT 
3,155 words 
27 November 2000
Business Week 
Number 3709 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Materials technology is the real wealth of nations. It has been the hallmark of civilizations stretching back 8,000 years to the Bronze Age. Today's Information Age is no different. Without silicon that is 99.99999% pure, there wouldn't be computer chips, cell phones, or fiber-optic networks. In recent decades, inorganic chemists have concocted an impressive array of metals, alloys, and ceramics--sending skyscrapers ever higher, making cars lighter and more fuel-efficient, and launching air travel for the masses. 

Organic chemistry, meanwhile, contributes its own share of modern conveniences. It produces the plastic packages that keep foods fresh, the housings that protect TVs and appliances, and synthetic fleeces that ward off the cold. Organic chemists created the fertilizers that help feed the world--and the ever-growing medley of wonder drugs that keep people healthy. BOUTIQUE. Now, materials scientists are determined to transform the world yet again. Not content with the raw materials that can be extracted from the earth, researchers are mining their imaginations for totally new structures. They're doing it by tearing down the walls between organic and inorganic chemistry, something that not long ago would have been dismissed as pseudo-science. Tomorrow's inorganic-organic combos will be tailored from the bottom up--patched together from individual atoms or molecules--to provide the precise properties needed for each specific application. Arden L. Bement Jr., an engineer at Purdue University, calls it the dawn of ``the boutique materials age.'' And it promises to turn Mother Nature green with envy. 

The possibilities are almost endless: Polymer-based paints and coatings that contain tiny ceramic particles to defy scratching and corrosion. Improved catalysts that spawn new pharmaceuticals and plastics. Iron-polymer batteries that generate twice as much power. We could also see resilient metal-composite car-body panels that pop back into shape after minor fender-benders. Tough yet lightweight composites that boost jet-engine performance--including turbofans that self-repair tiny stress cracks. And there'll be all manner of materials with internal smarts that emulate biological systems, enabling them to adapt to changing conditions, compensate for wear, and warn of impending trouble. 

Biological metaphors are a frequent theme among nano researchers, partly because they work with things measured in nanometers. This is the scale at which molecules mingle to create DNA and proteins, the building blocks of life. A nanometer is a billionth of a meter. Individual atoms are a few nanometers in diameter. 

Indeed, a chief goal of organic-inorganic weddings is to breathe a spark of life into tomorrow's materials progeny. That's not just a dream. With nano engineering, ``almost anything you can think of will be possible,'' declares W. Lance Haworth, executive officer for materials research at the National Science Foundation (NSF). The idea, says John H. Weaver, head of materials science at the University of Illinois, is to harness the molecular mechanisms that Nature has evolved for the production of new materials. 

The appeal of bio-inspired materials is easy to understand: The human body is a marvelously efficient factory. Most cells in the body contain the entire genetic code--4 billion ``base pairs'' of data that contain the recipes for making every one of the body's 10 trillion cells. But each cell actually needs just a tiny chunk of the genetic code to reproduce itself, and it manages to track down only that data. Since all 10 trillion cells replace themselves every few years, the body cranks out new DNA at the amazing rate of 10,000 miles an hour, day in and day out. But before nanotechnology can give birth to ``living'' materials, many fundamental issues must be resolved. Biological systems, Haworth notes, ``know when to switch various functions on and off. How do you mimic those processes in synthetic materials? How do you get organic and inorganic materials to grow cooperatively together?'' EXOTIC TOOLS. To find the answers, materials wizards are using exotic tools such as scanning-probe microscopes with supersharp tips. These not only trace the outlines of individual atoms but also move them around to explore how nanosize elements fit together. For example, the nanoManipulator at the University of North Carolina makes dabbling in chemistry so easy that biologists and physicists regularly use it to play with atoms and molecules as if they were Tinkertoys. ``What we're having the most fun with now,'' says Sean Washburn, a North Carolina physicist, ``are cigar-shaped nanotube molecules.'' These are elongated versions of the carbon buckyballs discovered in 1985 by Richard E. Smalley, a professor of physics and chemistry at Rice University. The discovery earned Smalley a Nobel Prize in 1996. 

Nanotubes are truly wonder molecules. First created in 1991 by Sumio Iijima, a scientist at NEC Corp., nanotubes are at least 100 times stronger than steel, but only one-sixth as heavy--so nanotube fibers could bolster just about any material. Moreover, nanotubes can conduct heat and electricity far better than copper, so reinforcing strands could do double duty as computer circuits, creating the nervous system for ``smart'' materials. Or they could serve as heat pipes to keep composite-plastics parts cool enough to be used in engines. 

These new molecules extend the performance of organic materials to unprecedented levels. But inorganic substances still offer many advantages. And nanotechnology provides the means to fashion inorganic-organic hybrids. ``Now you can develop materials that you couldn't even imagine before, because the mix of properties just wasn't available,'' says Ralph E. Taylor-Smith, a chemical engineer at Lucent Technologies Inc.'s Bell Laboratories. Inorganic materials tend to be hard but brittle--glass being a prime example. Organic materials, on the other hand, are typically soft and rubbery. Merge the two sets of properties, says Taylor-Smith, and you could get a substance that's very strong and hard, yet with enough ``give'' to impart good impact resistance. One example: a big flat-panel display for handheld computers that folds up. SCATTERSHOT. Inorganic-organic hybrids are hardly new, of course. Fiberglass-reinforced plastics have been around for decades. But these are essentially physical mixtures. They often suffer from weak chemical bonds between the reinforcements and the bulk material. Beyond a certain stress level, the two materials can delaminate, which often leads to structural failure. Nano engineering promises to cure that by tailoring the surfaces of components so they have chemical hooks specifically designed to glom onto each other. 

It's basically an issue of size. Silicon's carefully crafted semiconducting properties are produced after the fact, by shooting boron or other atoms into the finished bulk material. Tomorrow, this scattershot approach won't be good enough. Organic molecules will have to be placed at specific locations with atomic precision. One method might be to insert organics inside the crystalline structure of silicon, so its properties can be chemically tweaked from within. A research team at the University of Toronto, led by chemist Geoffrey A. Ozin, pulled off such a feat late last year. They crammed organic molecules into porous silica, producing an insulating compound that could replace the silicon-dioxide layers on future chips. Circuit lines and insulation will soon shrink to dimensions at which silicon dioxide is no longer an effective insulator. 

At the University of Minnesota, a team led by chemist Xiaoyang Zhu tackled another size-related problem by attaching chlorine atoms to silicon atoms. The problem is called stiction--the stickiness that particles exhibit starting in the so-called mesoscale range. This is in between the nano realm of quantum physics and the macro world of chemical events that unfold in test tubes or industrial vats. Stiction kicks in at around 1,000 nanometers. Below that, surface forces ``really dominate everything else,'' says Zhu. Even fluids have a hard time moving, not to mention the components in microelectromechanical systems, or MEMS--little machines carved into silicon chips. But a coating of chlorine that's one, and only one, atom thick can create a lubricating film that will make it easier for MEMS designs to include parts that move across the surface. 

The nano world has its own size-related surprises. For example, researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology discovered that semiconductor nano particles sandwiched between one polymer that conducts negative charges and another that conducts positive charges can create light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that emit colors spanning the visible spectrum. The same structure produces a rainbow of hues depending on the size of the particles. Green light is emitted by 1.8-nanometer particles, while 7.5-nanometer particles glow red when they're illuminated with ultraviolet light. This makes for more than a pretty light show. Diodes like these could provide the color in those fold-up displays for pocket computers--or for ``wallpaper'' TV screens in homes. 

Similarly, the bulk properties of materials often change dramatically with nano or meso ingredients. Composites made from particles of nano-size ceramics or metals smaller than 100 nanometers can suddenly become much stronger than predicted by existing materials-science models, says Richard W. Siegel, chief nanotechnologist at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. For example, metals with a so-called grain size of around 10 nanometers are as much as seven times harder and tougher than their ordinary counterparts with grain sizes in the hundreds of nanometers. 

The causes of these drastic changes stem from the weird world of quantum physics, says Thomas N. Theis, IBM's director of physical science. The bulk properties of any material, he explains, are merely the average of all the quantum forces affecting all the atoms. ``But as you chop things smaller and smaller, you eventually reach a point where the averaging no longer works.'' 

Associated changes in electrical properties have grabbed the attention of the U.S. Air Force, says John Kieffer, an inorganic chemist at the University of Illinois. The radar ``signature'' of a jet plane coated with nano compounds could be smaller and stealthier. Mesoscale particles may turn up in car paints. Andreas Stein, a Minnesota chemist, is working on photonic crystals that could be tuned to reject green light. Green light carries the most energy of any color. Block it with special paints, and the interior of cars parked in the sunlight wouldn't get so hot. Or the paint could include tough ceramic particles smaller than the wavelengths of visible light--making them transparent, so they wouldn't affect the color of the paint. But the particles could provide a virtually scratchproof surface. CHAMELEON. For materials scientists, all these strange new potentials are inspiring new dreams. At the University of California at Los Angeles, chemist James R. Heath envisions building unique materials from ``artificial atoms.'' These actually are small clusters of atoms dubbed quantum dots. With a bottom-up approach, Heath predicts, it will be possible to create materials that could never be produced with traditional chemistry. To prove it, his research group recently hatched a chameleon material that responds to electrical signals by switching back and forth from being a metal to being an insulator. 

To Colin Humphreys, a materials expert at Britain's Cambridge University, such feats indicate that materials science is now reaching a point analagous to genetic engineering in biology: Molecules will be engineered at the atomic level, then replicated with biologically modeled processes to produce bulk quantities. That's why many labs are working to harness biological principles, often focusing on DNA-like molecules that can direct the self-assembly of new materials. DNA is the leader of the body's chemical orchestra, directing it to turn out the 200-odd types of cells that make up human bodies. 

Chipmakers salivate at the thought of a DNA-type process for creating circuits. Actually, it will soon be necessary, says Aristides A.G. Requicha, head of the Laboratory for Molecular Robotics at the University of Southern California. ``We've got to break away from traditional silicon technology,'' he says, ``because it's about to price itself out of the market.'' The cost of new chip factories has climbed above $2 billion, with no end in sight. In 10 years, it could hit $15 billion. Moreover, silicon physics is due to hit a brick wall around 2010 to 2015, when circuit lines shrink to 0.01 micron and fall prey to the weird effects of quantum physics. So the search is on for new ways to fabricate transistors and wires. This is the main driver behind nanotech advances. 

This year, a research group at the University of Illinois, led by electrical engineer Joseph W. Lyding, pulled off a neat trick. They attached buckyballs and other carbon molecules to precise points on the surface of silicon, where the silicon transistors would normally be. The carbon atoms were attached in such a way that they could spin like tops, at speeds of trillions of times a second. If Lyding's team can create nano circuits to regulate the direction of spin, their carbon transistors might switch on and off a thousand times faster than silicon. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the Pentagon's venture capitalist, is cultivating that potential. It has launched a $10 million ``spintronics'' research program headed by the University of Buffalo. 

In another thrust, DARPA's Moletronics program aims to lay the foundations for molecular electronics. While molecular biologists can manipulate electrical charges in protein channels very accurately, this knowhow has been patched together empirically. The mathematical formulas that engineers would need to translate the biological processes into computer circuits don't exist. ``We're getting the hang of designing molecules to have specific electrical properties, not just chemical properties,'' says Christie R.K. Marrian, manager of DARPA's Moletronics program. How to wire such molecular switches together is now the main roadblock, he adds, but a DNA-type mechanism for self-assembly could be a solution. 

If scientists harness DNA for materials, the results would be amazing. Kieffer at Illinois envisions engineers spelling out what a material needs to do, and a computer program doping out the possible structures and the procedures for growing them. For NASA, creating superstrong, ultralight materials on demand would be just what the doctor ordered. ``NASA has the world's biggest weight-watchers program,'' says Meyya Meyyapan, chief nanotechnologist at NASA's Ames Research Center. ``Every pound we try to lift to LEO [low-earth orbit] costs $10,000--and to Mars, it's $100,000 a pound.'' The ultimate goal: a robotic spacecraft tipping the scales at 22 pounds. Here on earth, Dow Chemical Co. is working on nano composites for cars that could slash U.S. gasoline consumption by 4 billion gallons for each model year they're used. In turn, that would cut carbon-dioxide emissions by 11 billion pounds. PAYOFFS. Researchers at the California Institute of Technology think they're close to cracking Nature's codes. William A. Goddard III, head of Caltech's Materials & Process Simulation Center, says software has been devised for the Army that predicts the structure necessary to create a supersensitive sniffer. ``We're now in the process of designing modified olfactory receptors sensitive to very small concentrations of the products that come off land mines--and off nerve gases,'' says Goddard. Still, many questions remain, he admits. For example, when a molecule binds to an olfactory receptor, the receptor signals nerve cells by releasing calcium. ``We don't know enough about that to mimic it artificially,'' so for now the sniffer will sound the alarm with silicon circuits. But in a year or two, he predicts, Caltech will know how to do a far broader imitation of life. 

Some scientists smell commercial payoffs and are forming companies. Earlier this year, Smalley of Rice teamed up with Bob G. Gower, former chairman of Lyondell Petrochemical Co., to create Carbon Nanotechnologies Inc. in Houston to produce nanotubes. Minnesota's Stein recently co-founded MicroSurfaces Inc. in Minneapolis to market mesoscale coatings. And at North Carolina, physicist Otto Z. Zhou has a prototype product: an iron-polymer nano composite battery with ``double the lifetime per unit weight'' of lithium-ion batteries--plus several manufacturers haggling for the rights to build it. 

The new century is off to a good start in nanotech. It will be years before nanotubes and nanocomposites become as familiar as silicon. But the Nano Age should be in full swing around 2010. 

JUST LIKE CHILD'S PLAY 

With the nanoManipulator system at the University of North Carolina, experiments in nano land are almost child's play. Holding a pencil-like device, researchers can nudge molecules, like the carbon nanotubes projected onto the table, into different arrangements. A computer tracks every motion, reduces it a millionfold, and steers the tip of an atomic-force microscope, or AFM. 

-- AFM tips are so pointy they can trace the outlines of individual atoms. The whisker on the tip at left is a carbon nanotube that improves the resolution of images. For physically manipulating molecules, clean-shaven tips are used. 

-- Here, an AFM tip touches and bends a carbon nano-tube. Because it would be incredibly tedious to create electronic circuits by nudging millions of nanotubes into place, researchers are working on techniques that will cause nanotubes to self-assemble into desired shapes and patterns. 

-- As an alternative, conductive polymers can be coaxed into specific patterns. The Z-shaped structure here is formed by a conductive polymer with a tongue-twisting name: naphthalene-tetracarboxylic-dianhydride. 

Illustration: Illustration: THE ULTIMATE LIBRARY Incredible amounts of information could be saved on a postage stamp if digital bits were stored as individual atoms. In NASA's visionary scheme, a nanotube is used as the read/write head, and zeros and ones are represented with hydrogen and fluorine atoms, respectively. A stamp might hold the entire Library of Congress and then some. Illustration: Illustration: RAINBOW'S END The romance of rainbow colors gives way to mathematical formulas in the nano world. Researchers at MIT developed a polymer-semiconductor composite that can emit different colors-in fact, all visible colors. The material could yield nano-size light-emitting diodes (LEDs) for wallpaper-thin computer displays and TV screens. Illustration: Illustration: MIX AND MELD Organic coatings consisting of one-atom-thick layers may be silicon's ticket to new jobs. Here, nitrogen atoms (red) link a silicon substrate and a coating of carbon atoms capped with hydrogen (blue). The University of Minnesota is developing a range of coatings for inorganic silicon. Illustration: Illustration: ATOMIC SKYSCRAPERS Researchers can use exotic tools such as atomic-force microscopes to nudge individual atoms into place. Until recently the atoms were just rolled across a surface. Now scientists at the University of Southern California are building upward, erecting structures that look like tall ant hills--two, three, and four molecules high. 


Document bw00000020010804dwbr003j5


More Like This

 Article 166 *******************    



Social Tornadoes 

Karen Southwick 
1,571 words 
27 November 2000
Forbes ASAP 
63 
Volume ; Issue 
English
Copyright 2000 Forbes Inc. 

VENTURE CAPALIST William H. Davidow and economist W. Brian Arthur have been two of the most influential participants in the digital revolution. Davidow, a venture investor and high tech industry executive for more than 30 years, held positions at Intel, Hewlett-Packard, and General Electric before cofounding Mohr, Davidow Ventures. His book , coauthored with Editor Michael S. Malone, was one of the first to predict the rise of the New Economy. Davidow also has written numerous essays about the impact of technology on our social institutions, including government. 

Arthur, the Citibank Professor at the famed Santa Fe Institute, is well known for his economic theory of increasing returns, which forecast the prominence of such companies as Microsoft. The theory suggests that companies with a lock on critical technology can dominate, even monopolize, market segments and earn increasing returns for themselves and their partners. As modern economies shift toward high technology, the new economics of increasing returns alters the character of competition, business, and even government. 

In this interview with Executive Editor Karen Southwick, Davidow and Arthur discuss "social tornadoes," which can be caused by technological shifts that disrupt the natural evolution of society, and how this affects our institutions. 

ASAP: 

First, let's define social tornadoes. 

DAVIDOW: 

There are going to be more and more dynamics in society where things grow very fast and decline very fast. It's where something [critical] can be triggered by a very small event. 

ASAP: 

You've both suggested that in these social tornadoes, government will become less reliable. If that occurs, what takes its place? 

ARTHUR: 

We've gone from a world where our interconnection was by railroad to where it's by the Internet. We're connected internationally and instantaneously, so governments now have the problem of trying to organize actions and regulate things within borders when the actions are across borders. 

[What's taking its place] is monoculture, where everything everywhere is exactly the same. If we wire up everybody and interconnect all kinds of disparate groups and countries, that's where we're headed. Suddenly everyone has the same wants and needs. In 15 years you are going to see a mass culture worldwide. 

DAVIDOW: 

If you follow Brian's comments into the economic arena, suppose all the central banks began following the same rules. Now suppose something changes in the economy and the rules are wrong. Then it is wrong around the world. You don't have different patterns of treating the illness, so you can't see how Europe dealt with it or Japan dealt with it or the United States dealt with it. You keep applying the same mechanisms, and every problem becomes a worldwide problem. 

ASAP: 

But what do we do about the things that technology brings, like monoculture? 

ARTHUR: 

What we ought to do is look at coming technology with a more critical view. What do we want to fund? What do we want to support morally? I don't think we can hold back technology. We're better off because of it. We live longer, and we're healthier, and we don't see our children die before the age of 5. But technology has brought us into a world where once you interconnect, all the little problems slosh back and forth and get bigger and bigger. That's where the instability comes. 

ASAP: 

Let me bring another Bill into the discussion-Bill Joy. He wrote a recent essay in which he talks about how advances such as nanotechnology and cloning are now outrunning our ability to control them. Do you agree? 

ARTHUR: 

While I really do respect Bill Joy, you could make a reasonably good argument that technology has liberated us to some degree as human beings. If I want to be a writer, I could be a writer. If I want to go bowling most of the day, or fishing, or scale Mount Everest, or whatever is deeply human for me, I've got the freedom, thanks to technology, to do this. And yet, I would certainly say that, especially with genetic technology, we need to start thinking about problems before they happen. 

ASAP: 

Most people in Silicon Valley believe that the free market is the best way to sort out good ideas and bad ideas. But what about things like genetic technology, which have such a tremendous possibility to change even what it means to be human? 

ARTHUR: 

I wouldn't want to see much government intervention at all. The role of the government is not to stop technology but to let you know when technology can be harmful. We do that with nicotine. We do it with pharmaceuticals. The government should and does get involved in saying which pharmaceuticals are harmful. I wouldn't want the government to interact with my cell phone, but in certain areas that affect us medically, I think the government has a role in scrutinizing and drawing the public's attention to something that might be downright dangerous. 

ASAP: 

Then what should the government's role be with respect to monopolies, or alleged monopolies? 

ARTHUR: 

In high tech it's the very prospect of being able to create a monopoly that earns the extreme profits that keeps people working until 3 in the morning. I'm for the hands-off approach [by government] unless the law is totally breached and abused. If somebody locks into some new sector of high tech, that's perfectly fine. But if they have locked in a sector and started to pull down their competitors and block innovation, that might be where government blows the whistle. 

ASAP: 

So you think the Microsoft suit was justified. 

ARTHUR: 

Yes. The case against Microsoft isn't that they formed a monopoly. It is not illegal to have a monopoly. The case is how they used the monopoly, and I think that the evidence is in favor of what the judge said: that they misused their monopoly power. 

DAVIDOW: 

If you believe that monopolies sometimes do bad things, then you need a mechanism that corrects the problem in two years and not 20 years. The current system responds solely to the problem after it happens. If we're going to see more and more monopolies being created, you need a system that acts more quickly. 

ARTHUR: 

We are searching for the proper role of government. To define that, rather than set a lot of rules, we need some overall policies. My suggestion is that the government should concern itself greatly with innovation, products, and price. The prices keep going down anyway with most of high tech, so maybe price isn't such a big issue. The big issue is innovation and having no incentive either to innovate or produce products of quality because there's an abusive monopoly. 

ASAP: 

What about a situation like you have with America Online, a dominant content provider on the Net, combining with one of the dominant Old Economy publishers? Is that a place where government should intervene? 

DAVIDOW: 

I can argue that AOL is more of a country than a monopoly. You're an AOL customer, a virtual citizen, and they have certain rules of behavior, like privacy policies. I become deeply embedded in their infrastructure, and it's very costly to switch. 

ASAP: 

Then do we need international bodies to deal with these new countries? 

ARTHUR: 

World history is more and more a story of increasing interconnection. As the interconnections happen, governing bodies suddenly find themselves losing control. In the 1200s or so, there was no local body that could control international finances. Bankers were sending out letters of credit and financing across countries. So you see a gradual widening of government from village councils to town meetings to states in the United States, or principalities in Germany, and then national states. Now we have an international virtual community that's gone up almost overnight. No national government can control that. What is likely to happen is some close-knit, informal group of people will start setting up policies. 

DAVIDOW: 

As an example of that, I actually believe that a group of banks will get together and create a commodity-referenced world currency. What I could envision is two or three competing private currencies, where I would choose between them. You've got to think about quasi-international forms of government, which are probably going to be domain specific. 

ASAP: 

Within a nation, you can enforce your own rules, but when you are talking about these ad hoc groups, how do you enforce those rules? 

DAVIDOW: 

You could argue that the market might enforce them by providing people a choice. 

ASAP: 

What can we as a society do to buffer ourselves against the types of disruptions that could become more common as we grow more interconnected? 

ARTHUR: 

Anytime you have disasters, you very quickly arrange to bypass technology. The worst thing is to have a system where nothing happens, and then suddenly you get a major disaster. 

DAVIDOW: 

From a government point of view, one wonderful policy thing would be to sit down and say, "Where are we highly interconnection-dependent, and where is that going to be the cause of major social and economic problems in the future?" And then you say, "Do I wait until I have the crisis, or do I want to try and deal with it ahead of time?' 

Document fb00000020011213dwbr000bc


More Like This

 Article 167 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

CHIP TECHNOLOGY: QUANTUM LEAPS AND TINY STEPS 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
283 words 
4 December 2000
Business Week 
113 
Number 3710 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

IT'S IEDM TIME AGAIN. THE international Electron Devices Meeting annually probes what's ahead in chip technology. Among the topics at this year's event, set for Dec. 11-13 at the San Francisco Hilton & Towers, will be developments in such esoteric fields as quantum computing and nanotechnology. 

In quantum computing, IBM researcher David DiVincenzo will describe a theoretical model for a computer that processes quantum bits, or ``q-bits.'' These would exploit the quirky laws of quantum physics, where the same bit can represent both zero and one simultaneously. The goal is to solve in just a few hours problems that would take centuries if tackled with today's computers. IBM is now working to translate the model into actual circuits. One candidate would use switches that turn on and off by changing the direction of spin of a single electron. 

Single-electron transistors, or SETs, aren't just for quantum computers, though. In fact, researchers from Japan's NTT will unveil a working logic circuit based on such wee switches. SETs are about as ``nano'' as chip technology can get. But researchers from the University of California at Berkeley will show their own ``nano'' feat: a key transistor component that's only 20 nanometers wide. That's roughly the size of a string of seven silicon atoms. 

Back on more familiar ground, Toshiba will talk about the rosy outlook for large-capacity flash memory chips. And Samsung researchers will show off a teensy flash-memory cell for gigachips that can hold a billion bits of data. More details are at www.ieee.org/conference/iedm. 

Document bw00000020010804dwc4003p1


More Like This

 Article 168 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
200 words 
18 December 2000
Business Week 
157 
Number 3712 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- Some bacteria thrive on really noxious stuff. In the flooded depths of an old zinc mine, University of Wisconsin researchers found microbes that are converting sulfuric acid, which contaminates many mine sites, into benign zinc sulfide. The discovery of this new aquatic ecosystem is reported in the Dec. 1 issue of Science. Meanwhile, researchers at Germany's Technical University Berlin have isolated similar bugs that decompose chlorobenzenes--the solvents in some paints and cleaning fluids--and render the nasty gunk harmless. These bugs are described in the Nov. 30 issue of Nature. 

-- Scientists at the University of Nebraska are pioneering a relatively simple way to create quantum dots. These dots, which could be the guts of tomorrow's ultrafast computers, are essentially tiny metal boxes that house single-electron switches--transistors far smaller than could ever be etched into silicon. Nebraska's technique uses a combination of electrical currents and chemistry to cause quantum dots to self-assemble and form neat rows of boxes. But the process is too touchy for commercial use. The researchers hope to work out the bugs in five years. 

Photograph: HELPFUL Microbes COURTESY UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN/MADISON 


Document bw00000020010804dwci0043k


More Like This

 Article 169 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

ALL THE BETTER TO HEAR YOU WITH, MY DEAR 

EDITED BY OTIS PORT 
226 words 
18 December 2000
Business Week 
157 
Number 3712 
English
(c) 2000 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

HEARING AIDS AND acoustic sensors modeled on biological ears--complete with artificial ear hairs, or stereocilia--may be within reach. Thanks to nanotechnology, manmade devices could soon match--then surpass--the sensitivity of Nature's keenest ears. 

On Dec. 5, at the annual meeting of the Acoustical Society of America in Newport Beach, Calif., an international team led by researchers at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) was scheduled to report that carbon nanotubes could be the key to revolutionary advances in acoustic technology. Nanotubes are rod-shaped bundles of carbon atoms only a few billionths of a meter in diameter--even smaller than the tiny hairs in human ears. 

Smallness is critical to sensitivity, notes JPL researcher Flavio Noca. The gentle sound waves of, say, rustling leaves cause the ear's stereocilia to sway back and forth by less than a nanometer. Large rods can't mimic such subtle movements. But with nanotubes, the team envisions a device that can catch sounds of the forest--and more. They describe a supersensitive ``nanostethoscope'' that could pick up the metabolic sounds of individual cells--perhaps telling healthy cells from cancerous ones. And future robots sent by NASA to explore distant planets could listen for signs of life, no matter how tiny. 

Document bw00000020010804dwci0043l


More Like This

 Article 170 *******************    



Industry Outlook 2001: Manufacturing 

MATERIALS: PLASTICS 

By Otis Port in New York 
745 words 
8 January 2001
Business Week 
125 
Number 3714 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

The world seems to be going poly ga-ga over plastics. These man-made materials are already ubiquitous in packaging and containers--even cans often have polymer linings, as do the caps and lids on glass bottles and jars. The ``wood'' used for TV cabinets and furniture is frequently harvested from barrels of oil, not forests. Polymer threads are a staple in clothes and fabrics. And carmakers long ago began replacing metal bumpers with plastics. All told, last year's production of synthetic raw materials, called resins, seems sure to top the 100-billion-pound mark. At the end of October, production was up 8% from 1999, when 97.5 billion pounds spewed from resin factories. Shampoo bottles, potato-chip bags, ``jewel boxes'' for compact disks, and other types of packaging accounted for a quarter of the total. 

Still, that's just a taste of what's coming. The plastics industry is now gearing up to grab electronics business from silicon--and even steal some thunder from steel and concrete in heavy construction jobs, like bridges. And established synthetics will get a nanotechnology makeover to boost their strength. TINY KEYBOARD. Plastics may never rival silicon for high-speed circuits such as microprocessors. Compared with silicon, the best conductive polymers transmit electrical signals at a snail's pace. But for many less-demanding jobs, like electronic tags, plastics are just the ticket. Ditto for flexible displays and keyboards. In a few years, business travelers will be able to kiss luggable laptops goodbye. Instead, managers will sport Lilliputian computers with full-size displays and keyboards that fold up to fit in a shirt pocket. ElectroTextiles Co., a British startup, has already developed a fabric keyboard that rolls up. In December, researchers from England's Cambridge University and Epson Cambridge Laboratory described how they used an inkjet printer to create a trail-blazing all-polymer transistor. 

For the small screens on handheld gadgets and cell phones, and for flexible fold-up displays, many scientists are betting on organic light-emitting diodes. OLED technology is being championed by DuPont, IBM, Eastman Kodak, Philips, and Sanyo, among others. Market researcher Stanford Resources Inc. predicts that sales of OLED displays will take off in 2001 and soar to $714 million in 2005, up from a mere $3 million in 1999. 

At the opposite extreme, fiber-reinforced polymer (FRP) composites are slowly making headway in infrastructure construction. Construction is already the No. 2 market for plastics, with water pipes and other building products chewing up 19 billion pounds of resin in 1999. But now, Ohio plans to upgrade 100 bridges with FRP roadbeds. In resurfacing just one bridge in Dayton last summer, 1 million pounds of FRP materials were used. FRP advocates predict that advanced composites will also replace supporting structures. So bridges could gobble huge amounts of plastics, since 500,000 bridges on federal highways are due for repair or replacement, according to Richard Weyers, a bridge expert at Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University. 

Meanwhile, nanotechnology promises a rebirth for many plastics. Researchers are hatching recipes that produce long polymer chains through molecule-by-molecule self-assembly. This can radically alter the properties of familiar plastics. Last March, materials scientists at Northwestern University unveiled a technique that creates polystyrene from orderly strands of molecules that resemble a DNA helix. Because the polymer chains in ordinary polystyrene are a spaghetti-like jumble, the plastic is brittle--CD jewel boxes being a prime example. Northwestern's parallel-polymer version features unprecedented toughness. 

All told, the current outlook for plastics seems at least as bright as it was in 1967, when The Graduate launched actor Dustin Hoffman's career and made ``plastics'' the punch line of the year. Today's high prices for oil and natural gas will no doubt dampen growth a bit in 2001, but the world around us seems destined to become increasingly polymerized. 


Positives and Negatives
POSITIVES
-- Growth of plastics consumption is chugging at more than 6% a year.
-- Packaging gobbles the most plastics, but the construction market is
gaining ground.
NEGATIVES
-- High oil prices will keep polymer costs topped off.
-- Exports--about 15% of industry sales--could suffer due to the dollar's
strength.


Illustration: Chart: PROGNOSIS 2001 PROGNOSIS CHARTS BY LAUREL ALLEN/BW AND ALBERTO MENA/BW Photograph: BRIDGE TO THE FUTURE: Polymers are being used in many infrastructure construction projects PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY HARDCORE COMPOSITES 


Document bw00000020010710dx1800035


More Like This

 Article 171 *******************    



Business Week International Editions: Industry Monitor 

INNOVATIONS 

BY PETTI FONG 
256 words 
29 January 2001
Business Week 
4A2 
Number 3717 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- Machine tools and related advanced manufacturing technologies have contributed nearly $1 trillion to the U.S. economy in the past five years, according to a new study by the Association of Manufacturing Technology. In addition to fueling a good portion of America's economic expansion in the past 10 years, advances in manufacturing technology have helped reduce the peaks and valleys of the U.S. business cycle. The study indicates that better machine tools have shortened process times and aided just-in-time inventory management procedures, thus smoothing out those bumpy inventory fluctuations. 

-- The North American Commission for Environmental Cooperation, an intergovernmental organization set up by Canada, the U.S., and Mexico, blames U.S. copper smelting plants, waste incinerators, and cement kilns for dioxins in the northern Canadian territory of Nunavut. Inuit in the area have more than twice the normal level of dioxins in their blood. The report found that 35% of the dioxins came from 10 sources, 9 of them in the U.S. 

-- Another nanoscopic step forward for advanced materials: Scientists at Drexel University and elsewhere have discovered a previously unknown type of carbon crystal called graphite polyhedral crystals (GPC). They're exquisitely small: Thousands would fit in the width of a human hair. The crystals have nanotube cores and outer surfaces that form perfect needles, pyramids, rods, and rings. They show promise for a variety of uses, ranging from rotors for nano-size electric motors to probes for atomic force microscopes. 

Document bw00000020010710dx1t000de


More Like This

 Article 172 *******************    



Technology 

The Science of Small We don't quite have microscopic robots yet, but nanotechnology is already here, in your sunblock and antifungal foot powder. 

BY Jonathan Fahey 
1,224 words 
5 February 2001
Forbes
124 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

James Von Ehr loves acorns. What the rest of the world sees as squirrel chow, Von Ehr sees as a perfect woodmaking machine, with the necessary energy supply, tools and complete instructions wrapped in a small package. If nature can make these machines, Von Ehr reasons, man can at least come close. And if there's a buck to be made in it, humans will eventually figure out a way. That time, he believes, is near. 

So near that Von Ehr, a 50-year-old software minimogul, has spent $14 million of his $200 million fortune funding Zyvex of Richardson, Tex. Von Ehr hopes to be the first entrepreneur to start selling submicroscopic robots that can fabricate from any combination of molecules a limitless array of superior materials maybe even hardwood. 

"We have the ability to eliminate the material scarcity that has driven mankind. But we have to build a brand-new industry from ground zero," says Von Ehr, who sold his software firm, Altsys, to Macromedia for $112 million in stock in 1995. 

The nebulous field of nanotechnology, freighted with as much hype as legitimate promise, boils down to the process of manipulating matter on a molecular scale (a nanometer is one-billionth of a meter, about the width of ten hydrogen atoms). Scientists foresee a day when they can churn out virus-size computers, cancer-munching robots swimming through arteries and desktop factories assembling watches out of dust. 

Nanotechnology has lured the likes of IBM, Motorola and Dow Chemical, as well as new entrants like Zyvex, to the pursuit of efficient, miniature materials. Last year Hewlett-Packard, along with a team of scientists from UCLA, proved the ability to make a switch that could be turned off and on, like a transistor, out of a single organic molecule called a catenane. This year they intend to test a 16-bit circuit smaller than a virus. It is conceivable that organic circuits will someday overtake silicon in the race to electronic miniaturization. 

"Because of nanotechnology, we'll see more changes in the next 30 years than we saw in all of the last century," says Mihail Roco, the nanotechnology adviser to the White House. The federal government has created a $422 million fund for public sector nanoresearch. 

Zyvex, billing itself as the first molecular nanotechnology company, is aiming for nanoproducts that are at least ten years from realization, if they are even possible. Von Ehr started up in 1997, buying ten powerful microscopes one for $350,000 and building a chemistry lab, machine shop and clean room in a 20,000-square-foot factory that hasn't shaken its new-car smell. Zyvex grew from 15 people in 1999 to 29 last year, and Von Ehr plans to double in size annually for the next several years. 

What started out as a plan to spend $2 million to $3 million a year for ten years has evolved into an ambitious effort to raise and spend $300 million over eight years. Late last year he brought in two veteran Texas Instruments managers to focus efforts on nearer-term products, such as microelectronic machine parts maybe several thousand nanometers across, to bring in some research money. 

Von Ehr is already frustrated with the pace of progress in his search. In one room chemists are fabricating a range of organic molecules they hope will function as mechanical components. The scientists across the hall are fiddling obsessively with the Volkswagen-size microscopes to see how the molecules work together, and testing their strength and stability. The staff has yet to produce any splashy discoveries. 

Just customizing research tools at Zyvex can take a high-tech eternity. A year and a half ago Zyvex scientists used a microscope to pick a silicon atom off a silicon wafer, a feat in and of itself. But, realizing they needed better manipulators in the microscope, they put the atom down and spent 15 months redesigning the machine's vacuum chamber. Zyvex turned out thousands of parts for the tool, and the chamber had to be sent away for retrofitting. Soon the physicists will be able to work freely with the dendrimers or burr-like molecules cooked up by Zyvex's chemists. 

While Zyvex's whitecoats tinker away, tangible products from nanotech research are already around us. IBM squeezes 20 gigabytes of data per square inch onto tiny disks readable only by heads made of magnetic films a few nanometers thick. Toyota has combined polypropylene and rubber at the nanometer scale to make a bumper that is as rigid as the usual 4-millimeter bumper but almost 60% thinner. 

The only publicly traded nanotech pure play with measurable sales is Romeoville, Ill.-based Nanophase Technologies , which probably lost more than $4 million on $4.2 million in sales last year. Its initial successes are in some rather mundane products, including zinc oxide, the white goopy sunblock that looks attractive only on a lifeguard's nose. 

The traditional method for making zinc oxide is to grind it into crystals about 200 nanometers wide. Nanophase can make them 50 nanometers wide, which renders the zinc oxide transparent no more white goop since each crystalline particle is small enough to allow harmless light to pass through. Sunburn-causing ultraviolet light, with its shorter wavelengths, bounces off the particles and never makes it to the skin. 

Nanophase produces these particles by first vaporizing zinc rods in a 3,000-degree plasma arc reactor, essentially a giant blowtorch. Clusters of zinc atoms then mix with a reactive gas, usually oxygen, and cool into a solid. Nine hundred million of these zinc oxide crystals could be spread across the head of a pin in a single layer. 

The company shipped 250 tons of zinc oxide powder last year; customers include BASF (for use in sunblocks) and Dr. Scholl's (for use as an antifungal agent in foot powder). "We're not going to spend shareholders' money trying to make nanobots and fuel cells," says Chief Executive Joseph Cross. 

Markets are opening everywhere. Nanophase's tiny aluminum oxide molecules fit so tightly together that they're making vinyl flooring up to five times more scratch-resistant than the regular version. The Navy uses Nanophase's aluminum and titanium oxides to recondition worn steering mechanisms in submarines. With less wear and no barnacle growth on the bow planes used to steer, the Navy expects to save $100 million a year once fully implemented. 

Nanometer-size materials occur all around us in nature, but it was only 20 years ago, thanks to IBM's introduction of the scanning tunneling microscope, that scientists began to observe and manipulate materials at the atomic level. The blue pigment Mayans used to paint temple walls 1,400 years ago was made of particles only about 50 nanometers across. They fit so tightly together they are nearly impervious to rain and sun, outlasting all other colors. 

Zyvex's Von Ehr is prepared to work another 20 years to perfect his first self-replicating nano-construction workers. "Having a lot of money,"he says, "has allowed me to do something bigger than Icould have otherwise." 

Or much, much smaller. 

Document fb00000020010711dx25000b7


More Like This

 Article 173 *******************    



Industry Monitor 

ONE TINY STEP FORWARD FOR NANOMEDICINE 

BY PETTI FONG 
230 words 
5 February 2001
Business Week 
110B 
Number 3718 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

THE WORLD'S MOST MINUTE propeller beanies have opened the door to nanoscale machines that one day may be able to scoot around human cells performing medical functions. Late last year, scientists at the Cornell University Nanobiotechnology Center created a cluster of nanoscopic machines that could spin their propellers at 480 revolutions per minute for nearly three hours. 

Each one smaller than a virus, the little gizmos are composed of three parts. The cylindrical motor is a modified bacterium protein that converts ATP--the fuel used by and found in living cells--into mechanical energy to turn a drive shaft and propeller, both made of nickel. And in a neat trick, this bundle of organic and inorganic bits is self-assembling, thanks to strategically placed molecular coatings that attract one another. 

The development is promising, but real medical applications remain a long way off, says the group's leader, Carlo D. Montemagno, an associate professor of biological engineering at Cornell. He dreams of a time when the addition of computational and sensing abilities will help create a class of self-assembling nanobots that can repair the human body. It should be possible to create ``engineered prosthetic devices at the cellular level--machines that can run within living cells,'' he says. 

Photograph: CELL MATES: These tiny gizmos work inside cells 


Document bw00000020010710dx25000fi


More Like This

 Article 174 *******************    



Forbes.com Contents Forbes.com Contents 

BY 
484 words 
19 February 2001
Forbes
14 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

Newsbits 

For many people, paradise is a cruise ship. The only problem is that at some point you have to get off. But now, for a starting price of $2 million, a lucky few can purchase their own cabin aboard The World of Residensea, which is essentially a 644-foot long, 12-deck luxury floating condo complete with 24-hour room service, simulated golf and cabins designed by big-name interior decorators. The ship, which will have its maiden voyage in early 2002, is expected to spend 250 days a year at sea and the rest in exotic ports like Monte Carlo and Rio. If this sounds good, better act. Already three-quarters of the 110 cabins have been sold. Angelo Ragaza 

Full story available at www.forbes.com/houseboat. 

Broadband in Latin America is set to boom, but only one company has built a regionwide broadband network-and it's not AT&T or Telefonica. Ten-year-old Impsat Fiber Networks, a former satellite service provider, got there first. Launching a fiber-optic network in 1999 to handle the region's impending data explosion, Impsat now provides Internet and private network data and voice telecommunications services to Latin America's biggest metropolitan markets. Clients include Ford, Coca-Cola, Shell and Citibank. Alexandra Kirkman 

Full Story available at www.forbes.com/impsat. 

The Little People V. America Online How thousands of disgruntled volunteers may shake up the parent of the world's most powerful media company Labored Laws Migrant cucumber pickers, meat deboners and Depression-era legislation still define the 21st-century workplace Ambushed With dimpled chads so yesterday, Washington, D.C. is ready to tackle a digital agenda Pillow Tech Analyzing the dreams of geeks isn't pleasant work, but somebody's got to do it When Whirl Was King Nanobot acolytes, Webcam shoppers and James Brown fans who embodied New Economy euphoria 

More Gold Online: After you've looked at our cover package on Venture Capitalists with the Midas touch (p. 86), click to www.forbes.com/midas for information and statistics on 50 more money men. 

Body Count. Visit Forbes.com's layoff counter, which tracks recent layoff announcements among Forbes 500 companies, at www.forbes.com/layoffs. 

MANAGEMENT & TRENDS Buyback Flashback The old Time Warner aggressively bought back its own stock-with little beneficial effect on its share price-for years. Why is the newly minted AOL Time Warner going down the same road with its recently announced $5 billion buyback? 

MARKETS Pro Forum: Utilities Should investors shun the entire electric-utility sector until the picture clears? Not according to Credit Suisse First Boston electric-power analyst Paul Patterson. 

E-COMMERCE Bad Idea After burning through nearly $1 billion in cash since last March, there seems to be no way out for Internet incubator Idealab and its digerati boss, Bill Gross. 

Document fb00000020010711dx2j000ce


More Like This

 Article 175 *******************    



Cover Story 

When Whirl Was King Scenes from inside the dot-com tornado 

BY Rodes Fishburne 
3,086 words 
19 February 2001
Forbes
86 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

"In a few years hence those who neither witnessed nor partook of this excitement can scarcely credit its extent and those who did will very likely be pained by its rememberance." A letter from Robert Effinger to his brother during the California Gold Rush, 1848 

The billboards blinked. It was that time of evening, speeding down Highway 101, when the signs on the side of the road whipped past like a flip book: "You shall receive...24/7...Initial Public Offering...Until You Burst...Totally Free... Now." Hyper thinking. The car accelerated. 

In years to come, when we look back, it will be hard to remember the mania as it was or even the order in which it occurred. As in an epic love affair, time was lost, chronology misplaced, individual events fused together into one gigantic money-freaked carnival. It all seemed to happen at once. 

The clippings of aging newsprint will precisely tell the New Economy story in dollars and stock options. But the tale of money alone won't capture the true nature of this whirling mania. Tales of fortune and uncourted luck grow stale after being twice told. It is the attitudes and ideas and behavior that linger, serving as signposts in this strange virtual topography, reminding us of our insatiable capacity to believe almost anything if the circumstances are ripe. Looking back, we will likely discover the only guiding principle during the Internet boom was the fever and the disorienting belief that the fever itself was the future. 

They meet us at the door, five of them, with yo-yos tied to their fingers. "We're in stealth mode," says the leader proudly. "The yo-yos are just for cover. We tell everyone we're a yo-yo company." The rest of the group cracks up. 

The business, called Woosh, is housed in the empty shell of an old Borland building in Scotts Valley, California. "Pretty nice spot, huh?" the leader says, waving to the surroundings. The group, composed of recent dropouts from Stanford University, leads us through the empty, glass-walled reception area, past the Zen meditation garden, to a patio next to the indoor swimming pool. An angel investor thought this would be a good place for them to concentrate on the business. 

"What we're building is a..." the leader freezes and then turns to the rest of the group. "Should I tell them?" An imperceptible signal passes. He turns back to us. "What we're building is a..." The explanation takes 90 minutes. Something about linking small businesses to Web sites using back-end software that will turn all the inventory into zeros and ones. Most of the explanation is incoherent gibberish, but we are too busy nodding along to object. The looks on their faces are those of true believers. Finally, in frustration, the leader draws a diagram of the business on a piece of paper: It is a gigantic asterisk. 

As we say good-bye in the lobby, the group plays with yo-yos, joking around and speaking in Star Wars dialogue. "There is no try, only do," says one of them in a Yoda voice. 

The leader opens the door for us. The back of his T-shirt reads: "Start-up. Kick butt. Cash out." 

To leave Stanford University, one of the most prestigious in the world, you don't go to the dean's office with a practiced story and parted hair to explain yourself. You go to the campus Web site and click the button that reads, "File a registration annulment." In the months to come, the brothers at Theta Delta Chi house alone would quit to start eight companies. 

Bill Burnham stalks the stage at the PricewaterhouseCoopers conference at the Millennium Hotel in New York City. Recently he left his position as an electronic commerce analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston to become a venture capitalist at Softbank. He's 28 years old. "People in their 20s and 30s have a lot of energy and a lot of drive," he says almost giddily. "Working for a startup is a very forgiving environment. You can make a lot of mistakes and still come out winning." 

He's on a roll, dispensing wisdom about what it's like to be gripping the wheel. Asked why young people make the best employees for Internet startups, Burnham turns to the audience and shrugs, "Because you can own that person because they have no other responsibilities." 

Kathy, a middle-aged business development manager at an e-commerce company, begins to sleep with the television on. She's made so much money day trading put and call options in the morning hours, she doesn't want to waste time turning on the television. After months of waking to the split-panel display, where pasty anchormen urgently interview analysts, she finally turns her television off. But a residue remains: The pattern of the stock ticker has burned into the screen. 

Bob Metcalfe, inventor of the Ethernet and founder of 3Com, holds court at a private dinner during the TED (Technology, Entertainment, and Design) conference in Monterey, California. 

During dessert, Metcalfe is tapped on the shoulder by Sky Dayton, the 28-year-old founder of Earthlink, and steps out of the room. He returns 15 minutes later with a quizzical smile on his face, telling his dinner companions, "I had to explain Metcalfe's Law to the young blonde woman who was with Sky." Then he asks, "Who is Courtney Love?" 

"The Internet is the greatest revolution in the history of the world." Tim Draper, the New York Times 

Five young men race down the corridor, looking for a way into the lecture hall. "This place is packed," one of them yells as they slide to a stop in front of a side door. It's locked. They knock. A woman opens the door halfway and peeks out. "There's a little room here, but you'll have to sit on the floor," she says. 

The heat is suffocating; each red, sweaty body is giving off enough energy to power a lightbulb. A television cameraman takes up most of the space at the top of the stairs. The Stanford University engineering lecture hall, banked like a Pompeian amphitheater, steers all eyes to the table clothed in regal red on the stage. 

Doug Hofstadter, professor of computer science at Indiana University, welcomes everyone to the Saturday afternoon event. He is breathless. A woman in the fourth row takes notes on her laptop computer. 

The purpose of the symposium is to answer the question, Will spiritual robots replace humanity by the year 2100? "I deliberately did not include among my panel what I would call naysayers," announces Hofstadter. "That is, people who think that it is impossible for other media, other substrates, to support consciousness or even intelligence...I feel that this is a question of shades of gray." 

Substrates? 

The temperature inside is approaching 80 degrees. A young man with a ponytail sits on the floor next to the cameraman and pulls off his blue T-shirt. He holds a digital recorder in front of him like a Geiger counter. 

The professor continues: "Animals have migrated from the sea to the land. Maybe [they] can migrate in other ways.... The original title that I made for this conference was 'Who Will We Be in 2093.'" 

Ray Kurzweil, inventor of speech recognition, rises from his chair to enthusiastic applause to suggest that, in the future, tiny robots called nanobots will swim around in our brains, stimulate our emotions, and expand our intelligence. "If the nanobots take up their positions by all the nerve fibers coming through all of our senses, they can shut off the senses from our real senses, provide the signals we would be receiving if we were in a virtual environment, and therefore provide full immersion virtual reality involving all of the senses," he says. 

Eight hundred acolytes exhale hot breath at once. The temperature rises. The shirtless Stanford student next to the cameraman takes off his Birkenstocks and assumes the lotus position. If he takes off his shorts next, he will be naked: Homo sapiens alfresco nodding along as other Homo sapiens talk about the triumph of Homo silicon. 

Bill Joy, chief scientist at Sun Microsystems, takes center stage: "I believe genetic engineering, nanotechnology, and robotics can bring almost unimaginable wealth. They can cure diseases, they can end poverty, they can end the need for work." 

But, he adds, "We're on the cusp of the further perfection of extreme evil an evil whose possibility spreads...to a surprising and terrible empowerment of extreme individuals." 

The heat is getting worse. People shift uncomfortably in their seats. Somewhere in the back is the thud of a body hitting the floor. The faithful are fainting. A woman shouts to the nine computermen below, "Doctor! Help!" A few faces on the stage turn upward, like men looking up at a noise during a championship chess game. But these experts on human biology are Ph.D.s, not M.D.s. 

Finally, an intermission. The crowd rushes the stage. They stand three deep around Bill Joy, nodding at everything he says. A woman presses her card into his hand and asks, "Do you consider yourself a prophet?" 

He looks like a traveling salesman who has lost his samples case. Sitting on the edge of a pool chair in the back courtyard of the Hyatt Rickeys in Palo Alto is John Pankiw, the erstwhile cofounder of CamShopper.com. A short young man with a Ned Beatty face, his black dress shirt open at the collar, he's thrilled to be in the heart of Silicon Valley. 

According to his earnest but crude business plan, John wants to install a mobile sales force in malls and department stores all over America, strap them into roller blades and affix bicycle helmets with Webcams mounted on top of their heads. Then, when someone in northeast Oregon or upper Bhutan or midtown London wants to see what Bloomingdale's in New York City has going in men's polo shirts, the sales assistant can wheel over to the right rack, locate the clothing, and use the third eye to send the product's image over the Internet. 

John has flown in from Florida. He's never been to Silicon Valley before. He's never written a business plan. He's never met a Sand Hill Road venture capitalist. But he's not concerned. He may be the first love child of the millennium born of the union between the media and the mythos of the Internet revolution. 

"Anyone who reads Wired or Red Herring or any magazine similar to that gets the perspective that if you have a good idea, you can come out here and present it, and if someone likes your idea, you run with it," John says. 

In the spring of 2000, he and CamShopper.com cofounder Julie Spector chanced upon a late-night report on CNBC. A French department store was equipping its employees to skate around the floor with Webcams attached to their heads. 

He wrote a business plan and started collecting names of potential investors. "I put together a long list of VC funds, from Accel to Benchmark to Greylock to Kleiner Perkins all the big respectable funds," he says. 

For 10 days now, he has operated out of his hotel room, making phone calls to the firms on his short list, spending more than $2,000. He wanted to hand deliver the business plans to demonstrate his commitment and see what the legendary Sand Hill Road is really like. "It's beautiful," he says of the undistinguished office buildings. 

Like the entrepreneurs he's read about, John isn't deterred by rejection. After getting the brush-off from a VC's receptionist, he returns to his rental car in the parking lot and psychs himself up for the next delivery. After dropping off the business plans, he checks out of room 2334 at the Hyatt Rickeys and flies home to Sarasota, Florida. 

In summarizing the trip, John remembers the venture capitalists he spoke with on the phone as polite and encouraging. "They thought CamShopper was really interesting," he says excitedly. "They were going to push it up in front of their pile. Their voices on the phone sounded genuine, so I believed them." 

"Can you hear me?" "Hello?" "Can you hear me?" "What's that? I can't hear you!" 

The four people standing outside the conference center, shouting into their cell phones, are in a pinch. They desperately need to call the office, but the Sierra Nevada mountains are in the way. Ironic, because they are at a conference devoted to "connectivity." 

They've come by Lexus, Land Rover, and limousine to Lake Tahoe, California, to pay homage to the most influential man of the technology age: George Gilder, host of the Telecosm conference. 

For the layman the used car salesman who subscribes to Forbes, or the high school econ teacher Gilder's most important asset is his claim to understand how CDMA, DRAM, RISC, FLAG, FTP, SONET, TDMA, XML not to mention Gaussian noise, gamma rays, Java applets, thallium lamps, Token rings, wafer fabs, micromirror switches, phonons, fused silica, heterojunctions, lumeniferous ether, stimulated Raman shifting, Rents Rule, praseodymium, pump lasers, and time/space mollusks actually work. This gives him an advantage not only over the average Joe but also over the thousands of secretly clueless brand managers, investment bankers, journalists, and venture capitalists working in Silicon Valley. 

Just as important, Gilder has made a lot of people a lot of money. His newsletter subscriber base has jumped from 10,000 in late 1997 to 65,000 today. If each of Gilder's subscribers is investing $10,000 in a Telecosm portfolio, then this former speechwriter for President Nixon now moves $650 million in the market. That's nearly two-thirds of a billion dollars, all riding on what George uncovers in the boiler room where they keep the engineers who make the New Economy zoom. 

Inside the lobby of the Squaw Creek Resort, where the number of cell phone holsters is higher than neckties, a tall, well-dressed older gentleman with sad eyes watches from a distance as the Gilderites move around a large stone monolith toward sessions on "The Storewidth Paradigm" and "Wireless Chips." Gilder, wearing a black-and-white referee's jersey over his blue dress shirt, sprints past, eating a banana and talking at the same time, on his way to moderate a luncheon discussion called "Cable Modems." 

As the afternoon's seminars come to a close, three men and a woman linger outside of the Grand Sierra Ballroom to compare notes. "I don't know about you guys, but I didn't understand a thing in that last session," says one man. 

"We don't really need to," another replies. "What's important is that Gilder's book is in the top 10 on Amazon, and this will all keep going." 

The tall, well-dressed older man with the sad eyes heads for the lobby. He looks like Sumner Redstone, but what would he be doing here? So familiar, and those world-weary eyes look like they'd come in handy during high-stakes poker. Who is that guy? 

Charles Keating turns to his companion, an attractive woman, and shakes his head. "Did you understand any of that?" he says. 

"James Brown!" calls out the black man in the tuxedo standing on the stage of San Francisco's Warfield Theatre. 

"JAMES BROWN!" shouts back the audience. 

Suddenly, on stage, there he stands, in a dark performer's suit and his famous pompadour. 

The dot-com crowd is here, wearing basic black, Manolo Blahnik shoes, and Pashmina scarves. The music crowd is here, too, wearing feather coats, top hats, cowboy boots, and Levi's jeans with Phish decals. And the suits, a half dozen, are present, mostly talking in the corner on tiny metallic cell phones. 

Lots of "whassups" float around the room, mingling effortlessly with a cloud of exhaled cannabis. "I smell Chanel...I smell White Diamonds...And I smell Mary Jane wan-na," rejoices James Brown into the microphone. 

He arcs across the stage, his 16-piece band launching into "Living in America," his four backup singers and one sex bomb acrobatic neo-Laugh In whirling dervish dancer all swinging to the beat. 

James Brown has made a career of perfect timing. He knows when to fall to the floor, exhausted, and when to rise up again from under the death cloak. And he knows when to get the check for a party cohosted by an Internet company called Musicbank, which hasn't opened its Web site yet. 

A pretty young thing in line for the open bar turns to her friend and announces, "I just took a new job." Her friend raises an eyebrow. "Yep," the first girl admits, "a dot-com." 

Behind her, on the floor, a yellow balloon bounces from hand to extended hand through the pot smoke and colored flashing lights. Each time the balloon descends, it's knocked higher by friendly hands. One, two, three times it bounces around the room. The sixth time, as it descends upon upraised hands, it explodes. 

The music doesn't miss a beat. People quit dancing and just jump up and down in place with their arms around each other's shoulders. The floor shivers. On stage, James Brown swings his microphone stand out, then snaps it back. He bows from the waist as the red velvet curtain suddenly closes. 

The shouting begins for an encore: 

"JAMES BROWN!" 

"JAMES BROWN!" 

It spreads across the floor, past the bartenders, and upward to the proscenium and into the mezzanine. The floor crowd chants, the balcony chants. 

"JAMES BROWN!" 

But the Godfather of Soul is gone. For this crowd, the show is over. 

"The idea has often occurred to me as to what this superabundant emigration will eventually do. Some will no doubt make money at the mines others at speculations of various kinds will amass wealth but the great body of emigrants must inevitably be disappointed. What will become of them? A great many are already returning. The steamers are now as much crowded on their downward trips as they were formerly going up." Robert Effinger, 1849 

Document fb00000020010711dx2j000e3


More Like This

 Article 176 *******************    



Cover Story 

THE RADICAL Carly Fiorina's Bold Management Experiment At HP 

By Peter Burrows in Palo Alto, Calif. 
5,067 words 
19 February 2001
Business Week 
70 
Number 3720 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Since taking over as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard Co. 18 months ago, Carleton S. ``Carly'' Fiorina has pushed the company to the limit to recapture the form that made it a management icon for six decades. Last November, it looked like she might have pushed too hard. After weeks of promising that HP would meet its quarterly numbers, Fiorina got grim news from the finance department. While sales growth beat expectations, profits had fallen $230 million short. The culprit, in large part, was Fiorina's aggressive management makeover. With HP's 88,000 staffers adjusting to the biggest reorganization in the company's history, expenses had risen out of control. And since new computer systems to track the changes weren't yet in place, HP's bean counters didn't detect the problem until 10 days after the quarter was over. ``It was frantic. The financial folks were running all around looking for more dollars,'' says one HP manager. 

One might expect a CEO in this spot to dial down on such a massive overhaul. Not Fiorina. After crunching numbers in an all-day session on Saturday and offering apologies for missing the forecast to HP's board at an emergency meeting Sunday, Fiorina told analysts she was raising HP's sales growth target for fiscal 2001 from 15% to as much as 17%. ``We hit a speed bump--a big speed bump--this quarter,'' she said in a speech broadcast to employees a few days later. ``But does it mean, `Gee, this is too hard?' No way. In blackjack, you double down when you have an increasing probability of winning. And we're going to double down.'' 

The stakes couldn't be higher--both for Fiorina and for the Silicon Valley pioneer started in a Palo Alto garage in 1938. Just as founders Bill Hewlett and David Packard broke the mold back then by eliminating hierarchies and introducing innovations such as profit-sharing and cubicles, Fiorina is betting on an approach so radical that experts say it has never been tried before at a company of HP's size and complexity. What's more, management gurus haven't a clue as to whether it will work--though the early signs suggest it may be too much, too fast. Not content to tackle one problem at a time, Fiorina is out to transform all aspects of HP at once, current economic slowdown be damned. That means strategy, structure, culture, compensation--everything from how to spark innovation to how to streamline internal processes. Such sweeping change is tough anywhere, and doubly so at tradition-bound HP. The reorganization will be ``hard to do--and there's not much DNA for it at HP,'' says Jay R. Galbraith, professor at the Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, Switzerland. 

Fiorina believes she has little choice. Her goal is to mix up a powerful cocktail of changes that will lift HP from its slow-growth funk of recent years before the company suffers a near-death experience similar to the one IBM endured 10 years ago and that Xerox and others are going through now. The conundrum for these behemoths: how to put the full force of the company behind winning in today's fiercely competitive technology business when they must also cook up brand-new megamarkets? It's a riddle, says Fiorina, that she can solve only by sweeping action that will ready HP for the next stage of the technology revolution, when companies latch on to the Internet to transform their operations. ``We looked in the mirror and saw a great company that was becoming a failure,'' Fiorina told employees. ``This is the vision Bill and Dave would have had if they were sitting here today.'' 

At its core lies a conviction that HP must become ``ambidextrous.'' Like a constantly mutating organism, the new HP is supposed to strike a balance: It should excel at short-term execution while pursuing long-term visions that create new markets. It should increase sales and profits in harmony rather than sacrifice one to gain the other. And HP will emphasize it all--technology, software, and consulting in every corner of computing, combining the product excellence of a Sun Microsystems Inc. with IBM's services strength. 

To achieve this, Fiorina has dismantled the decentralized approach honed throughout HP's 64-year history. Until last year, HP was a collection of 83 independently run units, each focused on a product such as scanners or security software. Fiorina has collapsed those into four sprawling organizations. One so-called back-end unit develops and builds computers, and another focuses on printers and imaging equipment. The back-end divisions hand products off to two ``front-end'' sales and marketing groups that peddle the wares--one to consumers, the other to corporations. The theory: The new structure will boost collaboration, giving sales and marketing execs a direct pipeline to engineers so products are developed from the ground up to solve customer problems. This is the first time a company with thousands of product lines and scores of businesses has attempted a front-back approach, a strategy that requires laser focus and superb coordination. 

Just as radical is Fiorina's plan for unleashing creativity. She calls it ``inventing at the intersection.'' Until now, HP has made stand-alone products, from $20 ink cartridges to $3 million Internet servers. By tying them all together, HP hopes to sniff out new markets at the junctions where the products meet. The new HP, she says, will excel at dreaming up new e-services and then making the gear to deliver them. By yearend, for example, HP customers should be able to call up a photo stored on the Net using a handheld gizmo and then wirelessly zap it to a nearby printer. To create such opportunities, HP has launched three ``cross-company initiatives''--wireless services, digital imaging, and commercial printing--that are the first formal effort to get all of HP's warring tribes working together. 

Will her grand plan work? It's still the petri-dish phase of the experiment, so it's too soon to say. But the initial results are troubling. While she had early success, the reorganization started to run aground nine months ago. Cushy commissions intended to light a fire under HP's sales force boosted sales, but mostly for low-margin products that did little for corporate profits. A more fundamental problem stems directly from the front-back structure: It doesn't clearly assign responsibility for profits and losses, meaning it's tough to diagnose and fix earnings screwups--especially since no individual manager will take the heat for missed numbers. And with staffers in 120 countries, redrawing the lines of communication and getting veterans of rival divisions to work together is proving nettlesome. ``The people who deal with Carly directly feel very empowered, but everyone else is running around saying, `What do we do now?''' says one HP manager. Another problem: Much of the burden of running HP lands squarely on Fiorina's shoulders. Some insiders and analysts say she needs a second-in-command to manage day-to-day operations. ``She's playing CEO, visionary, and COO, and that's too hard to do,'' says Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi. 

Fiorina gets frosty at the notion that her restructuring is hitting snags. ``This is a multiyear effort,'' she says. ``I always would have characterized Year Two as harder than Year One because this is when the change really gets binding. I actually think our fourth-quarter miss and the current slowing economy are galvanizing us. When things are going well, you can convince yourself that change isn't as necessary as you thought.'' Fiorina also dismisses the need for a COO: ``I'm running the business the way I think it ought to be run.'' 

If Fiorina pulls this off, she'll be tech's newest hero. The 46-year-old CEO already has earned top marks for zeroing in on HP's core problems--and for having the courage to tackle them head-on. And she did raise HP's growth to 15% in fiscal 2000 from 7% in 1999. If she keeps it up, a reinvigorated HP could become a blueprint for others trying to transform technology dinosaurs into dynamos. ``There isn't a major technology company in the world that has solved the problem she's trying to address, and we're all going to learn from her experience,'' says Stanford Business School professor Robert Burgelman. 

Fiorina needs results--and fast. For all its internal changes, HP today is more dependent than ever on maturing markets. While PCs and printers contributed 69% of HP's sales and three-fourths of its earnings last year, those businesses are expected to slow to single-digit growth in coming years, with falling profitability. Last year, HP was tied with Compaq as the leading U.S. maker of home PCs and sold 60% of home printers, according to IDC. Those numbers make it hard to boost market share. In corporate computing--where the company is banking on huge growth--HP has made only minor strides toward capturing lucrative business such as consulting services, storage, and software. And the failure of Fiorina's $16 billion bid to buy the consulting arm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP leaves her without a strong services division to help transform HP from high tech's old reliable boxmaker into a Net powerhouse, offering e-business solutions. CAREENING. With the tech sector slowing, this may be the wrong time to make a miracle. In January, HP said its revenue and earnings would fall short of targets for the first quarter, and Fiorina cut her sales-growth estimates to about 5%--a far cry from the mid-teens she had been promising. In late January, the company announced it was laying off 1,700 marketing workers. HP's stock, which has dropped from a split-adjusted $67 in July to less than $40, is 19% below its level when Fiorina took the helm. 

It's not just Fiorina's lofty goals that are so radical, but the way she's trying to achieve them. She's careening along at Net speed, ordering changes she hopes are right--but which may need adjustment later. That goes even for the front-back management structure. ``When you sail, you don't get there in a straight line,'' Fiorina argues. ``You adjust your course to fit the times and the current conditions.'' Insiders say that before the current slowdown, she expected HP to clock sales growth of 20% in 2002 and thereafter--a record clip for a $50 billion company. Fiorina won't confirm specific growth goals but says the downturn doesn't change her long-term plan. 

Her overambitious targets have cost her credibility with Wall Street, too. While she earned kudos for increasing sales growth and meeting expectations early on, she has damaged her reputation by trying to put a positive spin on more troubled recent quarters. HP insiders say that while former CEO Lewis E. Platt spent a few hours reviewing the results at the end of each quarter, Fiorina holds marathon, multiday sessions to figure out how to cast financials in the best light. Not everyone is impressed. ``I grew up with HP calculators, but they don't work right anymore,'' jokes Edward J. Zander, president of rival Sun Microsystems. ``Everything they mention seems to be growing 50%, but the company as a whole only grows 10%.'' Fiorina says HP has accurately reported all segments of its business and that she makes no special effort to spin the results. ``The calculators still work fine,'' she says. 

Fiorina was well aware of the challenges when she joined HP, but she also saw the huge untapped potential. She had grown to admire the company while working as an HP intern during her years studying medieval history at Stanford University. Later, as president of the largest division of telecommunications equipment maker Lucent Technologies Inc., she learned the frustrations of buying products from highly decentralized HP. When HP's board asked her to take over, she jumped at the chance to show off her management chops. While she had spearheaded the company's spin-off from AT&T in 1996, then CEO Richard A. McGinn got all the credit. ``PERFECTLY POSITIONED.'' Soon after signing on, Fiorina decided the front-back structure was the salve for HP's ills. With the help of consultants, she tailored the framework to HP's needs and developed a multiyear plan for rejuvenating the company. Step One would be to shake up complacent troops. Next, Fiorina set out to refine a strategy and ``reinvent'' HP from the ground up, a task she expected would take most of 2000. Only then--meaning about now--would HP be ready to unleash its potential as a top supplier of technology for companies revamping their businesses around the Web. 

That's where the cross-company initiatives come in. So far, HP has identified three. There's the digital-imaging effort to make photos, drawings, and videos as easy to create, store, and send as e-mail. A commercial-printing thrust aims to capture business that now goes to offset presses. And a wireless services effort might, say, turn a wristwatch into a full-function Net device that tracks the wearer's heart rate and transmits that info to a hospital. ``All the great technology companies got great by seeing trends and getting there first--and they're always misunderstood initially,'' says Fiorina. ``We think we see where the market is going and that we're perfectly positioned.'' 

The first chapters of Fiorina's plan came off as scripted. When she replaced 33-year HP veteran Platt on a balmy July day in 1999, Fiorina swept in with a rush of fresh thinking and made headway--for a time. She ordered unit chiefs to justify why HP should continue in that line of business. And she gave her marketers just six weeks to revamp advertising and relaunch the brand. After a few days on the job, she met with researchers who feared that Fiorina--a career salesperson--would move HP away from its engineering roots. She wowed them. In sharp contrast to the phlegmatic Platt, Fiorina moved through the crowd, microphone in hand, exhorting them to change the world. ``There was a lot of skepticism about her,'' says Stan Williams, director of HP's quantum science research program. ``But she was fantastic.'' 

If she was a hit with engineers, it took a bit longer to win over HP's executive council. For years, these top execs had measured HP's performance against its ability to meet internal goals, but rarely compared its growth rates to those of rivals. In August, Fiorina rocked their cozy world when she shared details of her reorganization--and of her sky-high growth targets. She went to a whiteboard and compared HP with better-performing competitors: Dell Computer in PCs, Sun in servers, and IBM in services. She issued a challenge: If the executives could show her another way to hit her 20% growth target by 2002, she would postpone the restructuring, insiders say. Five weeks later, the best alternative was a plan for just 16% growth. The restructuring would start by yearend. 

She dove into the details. While Platt ran HP like a holding company, Fiorina demanded weekly updates on key units and peppered midlevel managers with 3 a.m. voice mails on product details. She injected much needed discipline into HP's computer sales force, which had long gotten away with lowering quotas at the end of each quarter. To raise the stakes, she tied more sales compensation to performance and changed the bonus period from once a year to every six months to prevent salespeople from coasting until the fourth quarter. While some commissions were tied to the number of orders rather than the sales amount and contributed to the earnings miss, Fiorina has fixed the problem and accomplished her larger goal of kick-starting sales. ``You can feel the stress her changes are causing,'' says Kevin P. McManus, a vice-president of Premier Systems Integrators, which installs HP equipment. ``These guys know they have to perform.'' 

This play-to-win attitude has started to take root in other areas. Take HP Labs. In recent years, the once proud research and development center made too many incremental improvements to existing products, in part because engineers' bonuses were tied to the number, rather than the impact, of their inventions. Now, Fiorina is focusing HP's R&D dollars on ``big bang'' projects. Consider Bob Rau's PICO software, which helps automate the design of chips used in electronic gear. Rau had worked for years on the project, but the technology languished. Last spring, Rau told Fiorina that the market for such systems was projected to grow to $300 billion as appliance makers built all sorts of Net-enabled gadgets. Within days, Fiorina created a separate division that operates alongside the two back-end groups and has grown to 250 people. Besides Rau's software, it will sell other HP technologies such as new disk drives to manufacturers. ``It was like we'd been smothered for four years and someone was finally kind enough to lift the pillow off our face,'' says Rau. ROUGH EDGES. With Phase One of her transformation behind her, Fiorina launched a formal reinvention process last spring. First up: cutting expenses. Over nine days, a 12-person team came up with ways to slash $1 billion by fiscal 2002. HP could save $100 million by outsourcing procurement. It could trim $10 million by letting employees log their hours online rather than on cardboard time cards. And the company could revamp its stodgy marketing by consolidating advertising from 43 agencies into two. That would save money and, better yet, focus HP's campaigns on Fiorina's big Web plans rather than on its various stand-alone products. 

But when the big changes really started to kick in, Fiorina's plan started to bog down. In the past, HP's product chieftains ran their own operations, from design to sales and support. Today, they're folded into the two back-end units, leaving product chiefs with a far more limited role. They're still responsible for keeping HP competitive with rivals, hitting cost goals, and getting products to market on time. But they hand those products to the front-end organizations responsible for marketing and selling them. 

The arrangement solves a number of long-standing HP problems. For one, it makes HP far easier to do business with. Rather than getting mobbed by salespeople from various divisions, now customers deal with one person. It lets HP's expert product designers focus on what they do best and gives the front-end marketers authority to make the deals that are most profitable for HP as a whole--say, to sell a server at a lower margin to customers who commit to long-term consulting services. ``You couldn't miss how silly it was the old way if you were part of the wide-awake club,'' says Scott Stallard, a vice-president in HP's computing group. ``A parade of HP salesmen in Tauruses would pull up and meet for the first time outside of the customer's building.'' 

These advantages, though, aren't enough to convince management experts or many HP veterans that a front-back approach will work at such a complex company. How do back-end product designers stay close enough to customers to know when a new feature becomes a must-have? Will executives, now saddled with thousands of HP products under their supervision, give sufficient attention to each of them to stay competitive? And with shared profit-and-loss responsibility between front and back ends, who has the final say when an engineer wants to take a flier on expensive research? ``You just diffuse responsibility and authority,'' says Sara L. Beckman, a former HP manager who teaches at the Haas Business School at the University of California at Berkeley. ``It makes it easier to say, `Hey, that wasn't my problem.''' 

Indeed, the front-back plan is showing some rough edges. While HP cited many reasons for its troubling fourth-quarter results, the reorganization is probably front and center. Freed from decades-old lines of command, employees spent as if they had already hit hypergrowth. In October alone, the company hired 1,200 people. Even dinner and postage expenses ran far over the norm. Such profligate spending was rare under the old structure where powerful division chiefs kept a tight rein on the purse strings. ``They spent too much money on high-fives and setting themselves up to grow the following quarter,'' says Salomon Smith Barney analyst John B. Jones. 

That situation could improve over time. Fiorina rushed the reorganization into place before the company's information systems were revamped to reflect the changes. Before Fiorina arrived, each product division had its own financial reporting system. It was only on Nov. 1 that HP rolled out a new uber-system so staffers could work off the same books. Although it's too soon to say whether it's a winner, HP claims the system will let it watch earnings in powerful new ways. Rather than just see sales for a product line, managers will be able to track profits from a given customer companywide or by region. That way they can cut deals on some products to boost other sales and wind up with a more lucrative relationship. 

Another restructuring red flag is the way Fiorina now sets strategy, a big departure from ``The HP Way''--the principles laid out by the founders in 1957. Based on the belief that smart people will make the right choices if given the right tools and authority, ``Bill and Dave'' pushed strategy down to the managers most involved in each business. The approach worked. Not only did HP dominate most of its markets, but low-level employees unearthed new opportunities for the company. ``HP was always the exact opposite of a command-and-control environment,'' says former CEO Platt. Although Platt wouldn't comment on Fiorina directly, he says, ``Bill and Dave did not feel they had to make every decision.'' HP's $10 billion inkjet printer business, for example, got its start in a broom closet at HP's Corvallis (Ore.) campus, where its inventors had to set up because they had no budget. EYES ON THE PRIZES. Fiorina isn't waiting for another broom-closet miracle. Since the halcyon mid-'90s, the old HP way hasn't worked quite as well. The last mega-breakthrough product HP introduced was the inkjet printer, in 1984. Growth had slowed to just 4% in the six months before Fiorina took over. To give HP better direction, Fiorina has created a nine-person Strategy Council that meets every month to allocate resources, set priorities, and advise her on acquisitions and partnerships. ``This is a company that can do anything,'' Fiorina says. ``But it can't do everything.'' 

Again, the move makes sense on paper. By steering the entire company, the council can focus HP on a few big Internet prizes rather than myriad underfunded pet projects. But this top-down engine could backfire. Experts point out that except for visionaries like Apple Computer's Steve Jobs or IBM's Thomas J. Watson Jr., it's rare for the suits in the corner office to be able to predict the future--especially in a market as fast-changing as the Net. ``If we were to go too far toward top-down, it would not be right for this company,'' acknowledges Debra L. Dunn, HP's vice-president of strategy. 

To be sure, Fiorina is quick to embrace ideas from below if she thinks they'll solve a problem. This spring, Sam Mancuso, HP's vice-president of corporate accounts, proposed a team-based plan that advances the front-back approach. Time was, PC salespeople weren't allowed to sell, say, printers. Mancuso has fixed that by pulling together 20-person teams to concentrate on the top 75 corporate customers. The teams create an ``opportunity map'' for each customer, tracking the total amount of business HP could possibly book. Then the team analyzes what deal would maximize earnings for HP. Mancuso says his operation has boosted sales to top customers by more than 30% since May. ``We're taking the handcuffs off, so now we can be more aggressive,'' Mancuso says. 

The shackles may be off, but HP still lags its competitors in many areas. For all HP's talk of becoming a Net power, in the fourth quarter, Sun held 39% of the market for Unix servers preferred by e-businesses, according to IDC. HP is in second place with 23% share, a slight improvement over the year before. But it faces growing competition from third-place IBM, which just introduced a product line that many analysts say handily outperforms HP's servers. ``HP is just not making much headway,'' says Ellen M. Hancock, CEO of Exodus Communications Inc. Her company uses 62,000 servers in its Web hosting centers, virtually none of them from HP. And most of HP's Net schemes, such as Cartogra, a service that lets consumers post pictures on the Web, have failed to catch on. 

Even fans of Fiorina acknowledge she has a ways to go. While wireless juggernaut Nokia Corp. just signed a deal to use HP software, Chairman Jorma Ollila questions how successful Fiorina's turnaround is likely to be. ``Carly is very impressive,'' he says. ``But the jury is still out on HP.'' Says Cisco Systems Inc. CEO John T. Chambers, who named Fiorina to his board on Jan. 10: ``I'd bet that Carly will be one of the top 5 or 10 CEOs in the nation. But she has still got to get them running faster.'' Fiorina wouldn't disagree and says she plans to keep upping her bets. ``The greatest risk is standing still,'' she says. She should hope she has picked the right cards, because she's gambling with Silicon Valley's proudest legacy. 


The Assessment
BENEFITS
HAPPIER CUSTOMERS
Clients should find HP easier to deal with, since they'll work with just one
account team.
SALES BOOST
HP should maximize its selling opportunities because account reps will sell
all HP products, not just those from one division.
REAL SOLUTIONS
HP can sell its products in combination as ``solutions''--instead of just PCs
or printers--to companies facing e-business problems.
FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY
With all corporate sales under one roof, HP can measure the total value of a
customer, allowing reps to discount some products and still maximize profits
on the overall contract.
RISKS
OVERWHELMED WITH DUTIES
With so many products being made and sold by just four units, HP execs have
more on their plates and could miss the details that keep products
competitive.
POORER EXECUTION
When product managers oversaw everything from manufacturing to sales, they
could respond quickly to changes. That will be harder with front- and back-end
groups synching their plans only every few weeks.
LESS ACCOUNTABILITY
Profit-and-loss responsibility is shared between the front- and back-end
groups so no one person is on the hot seat. Finger-pointing and foot-dragging
could replace HP's collegial cooperation.
FEWER SPENDING CONTROLS
With powerful division chiefs keeping a tight rein on the purse strings,
spending rarely got out of hand in the old HP. In the fourth quarter, expenses
soared as those lines of command broke down.
Carly to HP: Snap to It
Even before she took charge at HP in mid-1999, Fiorina had formulated a
three-phase plan for returning the company to its former glory. Some
highlights:
PHASE I, 1999: Prepare the ground
SPREAD THE GOSPEL
Held ``Coffee with Carly'' sessions in 20 countries to boost morale. Convinced
top lieutenants that HP needs to match the growth of rivals.
ONE IMAGE
Merged HP's fragmented ad effort under one  all-encompassing ``Invent''
campaign.
SPARK INNOVATION
Reoriented HP's R&D lab away from incremental product improvements and toward
big-bang projects such as nanotechnology for making superpowerful chips.
PHASE II, 2000: Improve growth and profits in core businesses
CONSOLIDATE
Folded HP's 83 product divisions into four units: two product development
units that work with two sales and marketing groups--one aimed at consumers,
the other corporations.
SET STRATEGY
Created a nine-person Strategy Council to allocate resources to the best
opportunities rather than leaving strategy to product chieftains.
WHACK COSTS
Lower expenses by $1 billion by revamping internal processes to tap the power
of the Web.
PHASE III, 2001 AND BEYOND: Build new markets
TRIGGER NEW PRODUCT CATEGORIES
Establish cross-company initiatives to develop altogether new Net-related
businesses.
WOO CUSTOMERS
Offer soup-to-nuts solutions for customers by creating teams from across HP
that sell to major accounts.
GOOD CORPORATE CITIZEN
Use HP's resources to create subsidized or low-cost computer centers and
services to make the Net available to everyone.


Illustration: Chart: HP STOCK PRICE: Since Fiorina became CEO in the summer of 1999, HP shares have fallen 18.9%, compared with a 1.4% decline for the Standard & Poor's Computer Index. Data: Bloomberg Financial Markets Photograph: BENCH STRENGTH: Top lieutenants on HP's executive council include Debra Dunn, Ann Livermore, Bob Wayman, Pradeep Jotwani, Susan Bowick, and Duane Zitzner PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD MORGENSTEIN; DIGITALLY ALTERED BY BARRY PROBOLA Photograph: WON OVER: Williams and other engineers quickly warmed to career salesperson Fiorina Photograph: NEW DEAL: After Fiorina embraced Mancuso's team-based ideas, HP's sales to top customers jumped by more than 30% BRIDGET BARRETT Illustration: Chart: HP the Fiorina Way: When Fiorina arrived at HP, the company was a confederation of 83 autonomous product units reporting through four groups. She radically revamped the structure into two ``back-end'' divisions--one developing printers, scanners, and the like, and the other computers. These report to ``front-end'' groups that market and sell HP's wares. Here's how the overhaul stacks up: 


Document bw00000020010710dx2j000ol


More Like This

 Article 177 *******************    



Industry Monitor 

INNOVATIONS 

By Petti Fong 
261 words 
5 March 2001
Business Week 
30B 
Number 3722 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- Researchers at the National Institute of Standards & Technology have formed a temporary partnership with the Texas Air National Guard to test the wind stability of various house designs. The test homes, bristling with instruments, will be subjected to hurricane-force winds generated by the propellers of a C-103 Hercules aircraft. The data gathered will be used to produce computer models capable of predicting the behavior of future house designs in high-wind situations. 

-- Scientists at the University of Illinois have chosen fiber optics as the basis of a sensor to monitor stress on train tracks. Once the optical lines are attached to the rails, tiny alterations in the light passing through the fiber alert engineers to the slightest deflections in the metal rails. What's more, fiber optic sensors are not just sensitive--they're surprisingly tough. The strain gauges now in use are affected by electromagnetic interference, but the fiber is not. 

-- Dimethylcadmium is one nasty compound. The toxic chemical is unstable at room temperature, explosive at higher temperatures, and costly to use. So why keep it around? For the past 10 years, scientists have needed the hazardous material to form nanocrystals, which are used in applications such as special electronic and optoelectronic devices. Now, a University of Arkansas research team has found a way to replace the toxic compound with a more stable and less expensive substance. The researchers discovered that from a base of cheaper--and safer--cadmium oxide, they can make a variety of nanocrystals incorporating several different materials. 

Document bw00000020010710dx35000wj


More Like This

 Article 178 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

By Otis Port EDITED BY ELLEN LICKING 
286 words 
12 March 2001
Business Week 
97 
No. 3723 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- Europe's Framework program, the blueprint for European Commission spending on research and innovation since the mid-1980s, could be getting a healthy 17% boost, to $16.5 billion. That's the figure on the table for the next four-year plan, which kicks off in 2003. In addition to accelerating online collaborations among university and industrial researchers, the EC wants to translate more university research into products in areas like biotechnology, nanotechnology, and aeronautics. 

-- Tina M. Nenoff of Sandia National Laboratories and researchers from four other institutions have developed a ``water softener'' for radioactive dumps. Their concoction is a trap that admits only specific molecules--just like the tiny sponges in water softeners that sop up metals in tap water. When these cages were tailored to admit strontium-90, the micro-sponges snared 99.8% of the noxious ions. If the microcages are then heated to 500C, they collapse and seal the strontium inside, ready for burial. 

-- It's a standing joke among scientists: Fusion power was always more than a decade off--and it still is. But now a team of European physicists led by Sandra Chapman at Britain's University of Warwick claims to have discovered what may be the key to producing inexhaustible energy by fusing hydrogen atoms from seawater. The group is constructing the first computer model that can simulate fusion's so-called H mode. That's when the superhot plasma gathers itself into a stable sunlike furnace--a fireball that should be easier to contain within the magnetic force fields of special reactors, such as tokamaks. Details will appear in the Mar. 19 issue of Physical Review Letters. 

Document bw00000020010710dx3c0011x


More Like This

 Article 179 *******************    



Cover Story 

MicroMachines: They're Huge 

BY Eric W. Pfeiffer 
1,077 words 
2 April 2001
Forbes
041 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

Call it the Wizard of Oz mistake. We have been so preoccupied by the spectacle of the Web being spun before us that we haven't paid attention to a little thing happening just behind the curtain. In the past two years, research, entrepreneurship, and capital have joined forces to create an innovation that could rival the importance of the microprocessor. To understand it, you must think small. Very small. 

Over the past 30 years, engineers have discovered how to take traditional machines and shrink them to the size of a grain of salt. We now have microphones no thicker than a single strand of human hair, engines so small that thousands could fit on the back of a skateboard, and medical probes that can be threaded through veins. Officially called MEMS (micro-electro-mechanical systems), these micromachines are even too small for Stuart Little but are still bigger than nanotechnology, which uses atoms or molecules as building blocks. If insects are indeed going to inherit the earth, they now have the machines to do it with. 

For giant creatures like us, MEMS mean smarter and cheaper products--from air bags that inflate to precisely fit a passenger's body, to pills that "live" in the body and release drugs when needed. These and other advances are why MEMS Exchange, a manufacturing umbrella organization, is projecting that by the end of the decade micromachines will generate annual sales of nearly $100 billion in new industrial and medical products. Not bad for an industry just entering adolescence. 

"Micromachines will be unseen parts of virtually every new product, but since they'll be embedded even more deeply than microprocessors, only their effect will matter--they'll be totally transparent," says Paul McWhorter, cofounder of MEMX, a maker of micromachines. 

Billions of these devices already exist. Anything that needs to be operated, moved, or analyzed in micron-size increments (a micron is a millionth of a meter), such as photons in optical networks or drops of blood for medical tests, is perfect for these machines. And because they require little in the way of power, MEMS are also good for any product that has limited battery life, such as a cell phone or laptop. 

Ironically, the reason micromachines are becoming embedded in our world in such large numbers isn't only because of their small size but also because of how they are made. If machinists still had to sit in their shops and craft micromachines one at a time, they'd be cool but also extremely rare and expensive. Fortunately, that isn't the case. When scientists first started thinking about making small machines, they looked around for available manufacturing techniques. The obvious choice was the same process those bunny-suited workers at Intel and National Semiconductor use to create silicon-based computer chips. 

Silicon turns out to be an inspired choice for making tough and reliable machines. Simply put, silicon is stronger than steel. One government-sponsored lab has built small engines that crank through 8 billion revolutions without lubrication. By comparison, if Goodyear could build a tire as reliable, it could make eight trips to the moon and back. 

Because we already know how to manufacture lots of silicon chips inexpensively using a batch, cookie-cutter approach, we can make micromachines cheaply, sometimes even 100 times cheaper than their traditional counterparts. We can also make them more complex without adding much cost. "It's no more expensive to put a million gears on a [machine] than it is one," says McWhorter of MEMX. 

In part, this is why many believe micromachines are "destined to become a hallmark 21st-century manufacturing technology" that will be just as grand and profitable as the digital circuitry it follows. "There's no difference between MEMS and microprocessors," says Roger Grace, a MEMS industry analyst and marketing consultant based in San Francisco. 

If this is true, then the upside is astronomical. Those immersed in MEMS like to think they are about 30 years behind the chip industry, and what lies ahead is a tumultuous, exciting, and lucrative few decades. Worldwide shipments of MEMS equaled $14.2 billion in 2000 and are expected to grow in the next four years to $30.4 billion, according to Grace. That's still a far cry from the more than $300 billion generated by the worldwide semiconductor market in 2000, but, based on most projections, the MEMS market is growing at a significantly faster rate. 

And speaking of semiconductors, the most well-known home for them is also a major target for MEMS. It seems that PCs are beginning to suffer from arrested development. They are getting faster and more powerful, but they are doing so only within their own digital domain. "Computers have changed our lives because they do computations. They design bridges. But it is all abstract," says Peter Will, a researcher at the University of Southern California and CTO of Akroria, a MEMS startup. 

MEMS, he says, bring to PCs the prospect of linking abstraction and the physical world. If chips are the brains, then micromachines are the senses. They are the fingers and eyes and noses of the computer, bringing the world (be it a car crash, pressure in a fuel line, or light in a fiber-optic network) into the boxed, insular space that sits quietly on desktops. Thus micromachines could be the key to technology's Holy Grail: artificial intelligence. "MEMS could expand a computer's boundary," says Will. "They could give computers a corporeal body." 

If MEMS were integrated circuits, this would be 1968: hundreds of small companies chasing new technology, but no dominant player yet--no MEMS Intel or Motorola--to rise above the pack and give the industry an identity. By the same token, no killer technology--no microprocessor--has yet emerged, although the consensus is that it is waiting in the wings. Most of all, as with the managers and engineers in Silicon Valley in '68, there is the overwhelming sense that something big is about to happen, that fortunes are going to be made, worlds overturned--and that MEMS are about to symbolize an age. And if there is one thing we've learned in the past half century, it is that very great things come in very small packages. 

Additional reporting by Kip Crosby. Special thanks to Ken Gabriel, Roger Grace, and Kurt Petersen 

Document fb00000020010711dx42000lh


More Like This

 Article 180 *******************    



Industry Monitor 

DNA: A NEW BUILDING BLOCK FOR CHIPS 

By Mitch Nelin Edited by Adam Aston 
255 words 
2 April 2001
Business Week 
30B 
Number 3726 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Science may be one step closer to nanoscale computer circuits that can assemble themselves. Self-assembly is almost essential for nanotechnology devices--because the components are so tiny. In nature, self-assembly happens all the time. The DNA in living cells acts like an old-fashioned switchboard: Certain DNA strands plug into matching DNA holes. So researchers at Pennsylvania State University decided to see if DNA could help hook up ultrasmall gold wires. 

Materials scientists Thomas Mallouk and Christine Keating attached different DNA tags to wires that were a mere 6,000 nanometers (Nm) long and 200 Nm wide: By contrast, a human hair is 100,000 Nm wide. When the wires were put in solution with a gold film covered with complementary DNA strands, the wires were drawn to their DNA counterparts on the film and attached themselves. 

The process wasn't perfect, however. Some mismatches occurred, and some untagged wires even stuck to the surface. Still, the researchers remain optimistic. In the next phase, they'll plant DNA tags on just the tips of the wires to see if the wires will then link together, end-to-end. If that works, it might eventually lead to a family of DNA-based recipes for various types of electronic-circuit modules. Think of nano-processors, or even nano-memory chips, all assembled spontaneously from the stuff of life. 

Photograph: FINE WIRES: They do the hookup PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY PENN STATE 


Document bw00000020010710dx42001h4


More Like This

 Article 181 *******************    



BusinessWeek 50 

Editorials 

756 words 
7 April 2001
Business Week 
216 
Number 3726A 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Innovators Win... 

In the U.S., the mood swing is palpable. Last year's manic Internet euphoria has been replaced by a darkening pessimism about all things high-tech. There are rumors that the New Economy is dead, with the demise of dot-coms ending the revolution. Don't believe them. It is certainly true that the more fanciful business models of the early days of the Web world, which disdained profitability along with bricks and mortar, are over. But the revolution lives on, and corporate competition depends more than ever on success in a Net-centric, information-driven, global economy. 

There is no denying that the icons of 2000--Microsoft, Lucent, Dell, and others that once led the BusinessWeek 50--are gone this year. In their places are oil and power companies, such as Exxon Mobil, and financial institutions such as Citigroup. These companies are unglamorous compared with the high-tech supernovas of the past. But at a time when gurus have been proved wrong and conventional wisdom proved false, the one constant for winning remains innovation. Corporations must use innovation not just occasionally but continuously if they are to prosper in the 21st century. 

Creating an innovative business culture is one of the greatest challenges ahead. Innovation isn't just about designing products. It's about designing consumer experiences and providing services. Dynegy Inc., for example, provides energy but gets most of it from the marketplace, not the ground. Duke Energy Corp. is in the power business, but its ``product'' is the savings that it shares with consumers after it upgrades their home systems to conserve electricity. 

In businesses that can be digitalized, from software to music to film, the subscription model appears transcendent. It is no surprise that AOL Time Warner Inc. is basing its operations on this model. But General Electric Co.? No longer just selling jet engines, GE is in the ``thrust service'' business, selling contracts for a guaranteed level of engine use. Included in the contract are the engines, parts, repairs, and financing. 

Companies in the BW 50 are using information technology to promote innovation that transforms what they sell, what they do, and how they do it. Tyco International Ltd., No. 1 on the list, uses it to knit together its varied enterprises. Merrill Lynch uses it to create new products, such as personalized, real-time market information it will soon make available on a personal digital assistant. Xilinx uses it to link itself to customers and partners, watch inventory, and distribute software--all via the Web. 

And this is just the beginning. ``Bioinformatics,'' the merging of information technology with biogenetic engineering, is a new field, thanks to the decoding of the human genome. Nanotechnology--building computers and machines at the atomic level--is just taking off. The ability to innovate will determine the future. 

...And Smart Managers, Too 

This year's BusinessWeek 50 is a blast from the past. New Economy darlings such as Cisco, Lucent, and Microsoft are gone. Indeed, a year ago, 24 of the top 50 were high-tech companies. No more. This year, energy companies, utilities, banks, and conglomerates are in. 

That's not to say that technology is totally out. Five companies have made the BW 50 each year, including this year, since the list was started. Three--Sun Microsystems, EMC, and Tellabs--are pure tech plays. Merck & Co. is a life-sciences pharmaceutical company. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter uses a lot of information technology. 

No doubt soaring oil and gas prices played a key role in getting Exxon Mobil, EOG Resources, Calpine, and other energy-based companies onto the list. But relying simply on higher prices didn't do the trick. Some slimmed down to core operations to maximize efficiency. Others managed assets wisely and refused to pay outsized prices for oil fields or service operations. Amerada Hess Corp. turned away from some high-priced energy assets to pick up other less expensive ones. 

Managing acquisitions well was a prime factor in getting onto the BW 50. Drug giant Merck resisted the temptation to pay huge sums for acquisitions, relying instead on its own labs to churn out top-selling drugs. Citigroup and FleetBoston Financial Corp. have moved beyond traditional banking strengths to incorporate insurance, investment, and other financial services. Others focus on managing flexibility. Providian Financial Corp. has sophisticated statistical models to manage credit card risk. 

Staying a winner in this economic environment will prove to be harder than any time during the past decade. Stay tuned. 

Document bw00000020010710dx47001pn


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 182 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

By Petti Fong Edited by Otis Port 
258 words 
16 April 2001
Business Week 
73 
Number 3728 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

-- Dioxins are environmental disasters. The byproduct of many industrial processes, they have been linked both to cancer and to birth defects. Currently, industry uses activated charcoal to mop up dioxins, but small amounts still escape. Carbon nanotubes are far more effective scavengers, say researchers at the University of Michigan. The tiny, hollow tubes can even sop up mere billionths of a gram of dioxin in a cubic yard of incinerator exhaust. There's a big hitch, though: They cost $230,000 a pound. But Houston's Carbon Nanotechnologies Inc. hopes to get the price down to $10 a pound within a few years. 

-- Call it a smelling-salts wakeup for ammonia production, which has not changed much in a half-century. It's a new catalyst developed by the Institute of Technical Chemistry in Bochum, Germany. What it does is slash in half the energy needed to make ammonia. Ammonia production consumes 1% of the world's energy, because synthesizing it requires enormous pressures. With the new ruthenium-barium catalyst, the pressure can be cut 92%. 

-- The wonders of soybeans don't cease. Three undergraduates in Purdue University's School of Agriculture have discovered that a mixture of one part soybean oil and four parts fuel oil yields a home heating oil that burns cleaner than the conventional stuff--and costs about 10% less. The team's finding earned the students a $4,500 first-place prize in the seventh annual New Uses for Soybeans Student Contest. 

Document bw00000020010710dx4g001vg


More Like This

 Article 183 *******************    



Business Week International Editions: Readers Report 

A WORLD OF INNOVATIONS 

353 words 
30 April 2001
Business Week 
6 
Number 3730 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Congratulation on the excellent ``Masters of Innovation'' in The BusinessWeek 50 (Bonus Issue, Spring, 2001). The world is indeed a lot more than Nasdaq, and your report expressed optimism about what lies ahead. Futures may be down, but the future seems bright. 

Jon Mjolhus 

Oslo 

``Masters of Innovation'' cites Bell Labs circa 1950 as one traditional model of innovation. Bell Labs, now the research and development arm of Lucent Technologies Inc., has come a long way since then in its approach to nurturing innovation. There used to be a number of layers between Bell Labs and the customer. That's no longer the case. 

Now development teams work directly with customers during the design phase. We also often now use customer networks to beta-test new products before we consider them final. The model seems to be working: Bell Labs innovations are making the journey from lab to market faster than ever, and we earn more than four patents per work day. 

Arun Netravali 

President, Bell Labs 

Lucent Technologies Inc. 

Murray Hill, N.J. 

The ``Masters of Innovation'' article on nanotechnology suggests a video game with nanosamurai entering the body to hack, chop, and slice cancer cells into Saturday night sashimi. When the battle is over, the samurai explode with a rousing ``Banzai!'' But will the bold samurai then gracefully fade away? 

Michael Driver 

Ichihara City, Japan 

After reading The BusinessWeek 50 ``Best Performers,'' I feel that they should be renamed ``The Lucky 50.'' Of the top 50 companies in 2000, only 13 made the grade again in 2001. While this is significantly different from a random draw, one has to wonder how useful such a ranking is to your readers. If your rankings of business schools varied this much from year to year, do you think anyone would take it seriously? I find it difficult to believe so many so-called ``top'' companies can fall from grace within just one year. Are the fundamentals of corporations really that volatile or does your ranking merely reflect stock returns? 

Shou Wan 

Ithaca, N.Y. 

Document bw00000020010710dx4u000r9


More Like This

 Article 184 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

HOW TO PACK A MIGHTY PUNCH ON A TINY CHIP 

By Ellen Licking 
232 words 
7 May 2001
Business Week 
75 
No. 3731 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Nanotubes--cylinders of carbon roughly one-billionth of a meter in diameter--may one day serve as transistors on computer chips. Five hundred times smaller than today's transistors, they could be the basis for fast chips, but only if engineers can devise an inexpensive approach for densely packing them onto silicon wafers. Researchers at IBM think they have such a method. 

It's a challenge because nanotubes naturally occur in two forms: semiconducting tubes and metallic ones. When nanotubes are deposited onto a silicon substrate, the result is a dense tangle of both. To build devices, chipmakers need to eliminate the metallic tubes and manipulate only the semiconducting ones. 

In the Apr. 27 issue of Science, a team from IBM Research led by senior scientist Phaedon Avouris describes one promising approach. First, the researchers disperse a tangle of nanotubes on silicon and fabricate electrodes on top of them. These electrodes are employed to switch off all the semiconducting tubes in the pile, so that they can't carry a current. Researchers then apply a voltage to selectively shatter the metallic tubes. 

With this technique, researchers can also remove concentric layers of nanotubes that are rolled up inside one another (image). By sculpting such rolls of tubes, scientists can produce transistors with the properties they desire. 

Document bw00000020010710dx570010n


More Like This

 Article 185 *******************    


Features/Next-Generation Technologies 

Building Chips, One Molecule at a Time 

Eryn Brown Reporter Associate Feliciano Garcia 
1,007 words 
14 May 2001
Fortune
174+ 
Issue: May 14, 2001 Vol. 143 No. 10 
English
(Copyright 2001) 

UCLA professor James Heath is trying to build a computer--though you wouldn't know it from the lab where he works. There's hardly a sliver of silicon to be found. No one wears a bunny suit. In one of the rooms, a run-of-the-mill organic chemistry lab, a postdoc named Julie hovers over a workspace strewn with test tubes, flasks, various bottles of chemicals. "There's usually a lot of shit lying around in here," she says apologetically as she picks up one of the flasks. It's coated with a yellowish-orange powder. "This has been sitting here a couple of weeks." She hands the flask to Heath. 

"That's the stuff!" he says happily. Unimpressive as it seems, the yellow crust on the flask is computer hardware: a billion trillion switches, each composed of just a single molecule. It is the culmination of five years of work, and it could be the key to the computer of the future and the vitality of the $200-billion-a-year semiconductor industry. 

Heath's vision is not some quixotic sci-fi dream. Over the next 20 years or so, technologists may well have to invent a new way of making chips if they want to prolong the rapid growth in processing power that has led to the development of personal computers, digital media, and the Internet. For the past 35 years, hardware and software companies could rely on Moore's law, which predicts that chipmakers will be able to double the number of transistors on a silicon chip (and therefore boost the chip's speed and power) every 18 months or so. The problem is, there are only so many transistors you can cram on a solid-state silicon chip; the laws of quantum mechanics dictate that the smaller components get (and the closer they are to one another) the less reliable they become in moving an electronic signal through a machine. Jam-packed chips also become prohibitively expensive to manufacture. Some industry insiders estimate that by 2015 the cost of building a traditional chip fab will reach $100 billion. 

So prominent chemists across the country--at Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Yale, Rice, Stanford, and Harvard, as well as at UCLA--are experimenting with a different sort of fabrication. Instead of chiseling chips from blocks of silicon, they are assembling a tinier type of computer component from the building blocks of matter. Their idea: to create new kinds of molecules that behave the way transistors and wires do, and then figure out how to arrange them into workable circuits. 

It's a far-out notion--one that requires radically new approaches to manufacturing and software programming--but the scientists are beginning to get somewhere with it. Heath's yellow powder is made up of molecules called rotaxanes, which act as switches just as transistors do. Coming up with molecules that can move predictably from one state ("on") to another ("off") is a huge breakthrough in itself; Heath and his team have also succeeded in attaching their minuscule switches to tiny wires. The new components do not operate as dependably as silicon transistors do, but Heath and his partners at Hewlett-Packard have solved that problem with a redundant wiring technique that routes signals around imperfect molecular switches. 

Heath thinks he might be able to build a rudimentary computer within a couple of years. "It won't be a computer you'll be proud of," he says, "but it will work." Then, he believes, if he can scale the whole thing up to a capacity of one megabyte (about the amount of memory in a cell phone), molecular computing becomes, as Heath puts it, "an engineering project"--in other words, a technology that companies can begin to muck around with themselves. 

A serious type whose ponytail and Birkenstocks belie his intensity in the lab, Heath, 39, never really intended to get involved in the computer industry. As a graduate student he worked with the team at Rice University that discovered buckminsterfullerene (or "buckyballs"), a new class of all-carbon materials with the potential for countless industrial applications. As a professor he had always wanted to work in nanotechnology, which uses chemistry to build submicroscopic machines. Heath says that he decided to explore molecular computing because he felt it could be a great proving ground. "I thought designing a computer would be a nice driver for the research," he says. 

Building a rudimentary molecular computer, as modest as its abilities may be, will entail a long, hard slog. Heath has been able to craft a molecular memory circuit (like those found in a DRAM chip for holding software programs while they're running) but not a logic circuit (like the ones in a Pentium microprocessor). Once he cracks the logic circuit nut, he'll then need to find a dependable way to connect his molecular circuits to one other and to inputs from the outside world, like a keyboard or mouse. That's no mean feat, considering that it involves linking chaotic arrays of molecules and carbon wires that are just atoms wide to metallic wires 50 times their size. 

With a Nobel Prize not beyond the realm of possibility for the inventor of the chip of the future, competitive noises sometimes reach a high pitch. Heath, for instance, has discovered a way to build a working circuit, which he says puts him ahead of the pack. But at least two of his rivals claim that their approaches will be better in the long run. Just because molecular transistors are tiny doesn't mean the egos working on them are. 

--Eryn Brown 

Quote: The yellow crust on the flask is computer hardware: a billion trillion switches, each composed of just a single molecule. 

See also introduction page 166 of same issue 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDRE SOUROUJON The wires on James Heath's circuit are only several atoms wide. 


Document fortu00020010711dx5e000l3


More Like This

 Article 186 *******************    


Features/The Next Generation 

The New New World Order Okay, the easy money was a mirage. But unrivaled prosperity may still lie ahead. So listen up, business leaders of tomorrow. Get it right, and you're golden. 

Bill Powell 
1,881 words 
14 May 2001
Fortune
134+ 
Issue: May 14, 2001 Vol. 143 No. 10 
English
(Copyright 2001) 

TO: Memo to the Next Generation 

FROM: The Chairman of the Board 

C'mon now, you didn't really think it was going to be that easy, did you? Always? You thought life consisted of showing up for breakfast at the SoHo Grand, dressed in your black crew neck and slacks, then blathering on about "metrics" and "eyeballs" and "first- mover advantage" only to have highly intelligent but, as history will show, obviously insane people throw money at you? Just like that? 

Okay. Now you know. Life isn't like that. Yes, for a two-year window at the end of the last century, it more or less was. That was a mania for the ages, one that needs a little time and distance before the smarter people among you can begin to understand just how it got so out of hand (because the chairman sure doesn't get it). 

But just so we're clear, the lessons are these: The Internet--its commercial reality and potential--is not a mirage; it is indeed a hugely important technology (though not necessarily--and I'll get to this--the most important technology of your still-young lifetime). 

But the easy money was a mirage. Anyone out there who thought you could become a millionaire by selling shoes over the Internet...well, now you know better. And for the record, there is no such word as "metrics." Drop it, please. In case it is not by now obvious, for the rest of your business lives you will be required to focus on "profit" and "loss." (It's okay; you'll get used to it.) And by the way, every corner of history, the momentous and the trivial alike, is littered with the carcasses of those with "first-mover advantage": the Nazis in the Sudetenland, Napoleon in Moscow--and who among you remembers a company called Commodore? Once upon a time (the late '70s), it had first-mover advantage in a business near and dear to most of your hearts: personal computers. 

If all this sounds a tad stern--as if you're about to be punished for the craziness of the past few years--relax. A mania is what has passed, that's all; but an era has only just begun. And it's yours. The world you are inheriting is at an extraordinary moment of promise. The developed world will soon be online all the time--in our cars, homes, and offices. And if you folks get it right, the poorer countries in the developing world will not be far behind. 

Incredible wealth has already been produced, thanks to the technological revolution of the past 20 years. But it's just a start. That you will live in interesting times is not, in this case, a Chinese cliche. It is an ironclad guarantee. And what more could you ask for? Is there anything worse than being bored? Those of you under 40, now coming to positions of leadership in business, government, science, and academia, will oversee changes in the next 40 years that can remake the world. 

The individuals profiled in the following story--25 in all, from around the world--are among the chosen ones, the people who will inherit a world of almost limitless technological potential and prosperity. But your success, as the past few years presumably have shown you, is not guaranteed. You will have to make choices-- business choices as well as ethical and moral choices--that will change the world for better or worse. As far as the chairman can tell, the world will be dominated by three issues: technology, demographics, and the emergence of a single--albeit very, very large- -nation onto the world stage. What follows is a peek over the horizon, a quick tour of what the world can be if you get it right. And let the chairman remind you: Screwing up is not an option. 

It used to be said that demographics are destiny. And while that is still true (as I'll explain later), demographics aren't everything. Technology is also destiny. You have already witnessed and perhaps helped drive extraordinary technological change--and with it unrivaled prosperity in the developed world. 

But the period you are entering is as promising and as daunting as any that has come before. It will make the past 30 years seem pedestrian. Forget for the moment the Internet, Moore's law, and Bill Joy's warnings about nanotechnology and artificial intelligence. Consider instead another issue: the beginning of life itself. 

Yours could well be the first generation of chief executives, no matter what your field, in which the first commandment in planning a Jack Welch-like succession strategy is going to be "Thou shalt not clone thyself." Does that sound like a joke? It's not. The chairman never jokes about things like that. On April 18, the British government announced a ban on human cloning. Britain is the home of Dolly, of course, the sheep that stared out at you from newsmagazine covers two years ago. A human clone someday will be a reality, perhaps in your lifetime. And that speaks to one central truth: The life sciences, and biotech in particular, are likely to be over the next 30 years what the rise of massive and cheap computing power has been over the past 30 years: the industry that amazes us all and changes almost everything. 

Cloning is probably the most difficult ethical choice your generation may have to face. But it's not the only one. Europe has for years been up in arms not about Frankenstein but about Frankenfood--genetically modified crops, whose potential environmental and genetic hazards, opponents claim, outweigh the potential economic benefits. 

But for every affluent European consumer now afraid that genetic alteration could go dangerously haywire, there is a farmer in China or India who desperately wants the seed that produces "golden rice," the crop that will not fail and that will help ensure that poor nations can once and for all escape the specter of poverty. The New Luddites, as Sun Microsystems' Bill Joy called them in his famous essay in Wired, must not be allowed to dominate this issue, as they now do. Ethical and economic choices need to be made to let the industry develop safely. And the chairman has a feeling that you haven't begun thinking hard about this stuff yet. 

Which leads to our second subject: You who are coming to power don't seem to have a clear fix on demographics, or the problems they pose, either. In the U.S., Japan, and Europe, you are no doubt aware of a basic depressing fact: The rest of us are getting old, in a hurry. It's hardly your fault that little has been done to prepare your societies for it; blame the politicians who have just left, or soon will leave, the public stage. But since it is now obvious that everyone is not going to get rich in ever-rising stock markets, it is up to your generation to deal with it. 

And that means sacrifice. Forget for a moment the U.S. and its own unfunded Social Security liabilities, and consider Japan. The world's second-richest country is deeply in debt, and it is graying faster than any other nation. If you count its unfunded pension liabilities, its debt is more than 200% of its GDP. A friend of the chairman's thinks that Japan has about three years to get its fiscal house in order. After that, he says, its current economic travails will be but a footnote to a financial implosion that could easily rock the world, one caused by demographics and the inability to make hard choices. 

Japan is the most parlous case. But in the developed world, the point is more or less the same: Sufficient taxes will have to be collected, or benefits reduced, so that the sums add up and we aging folks are taken care of. We booted this one. Inexcusable, yes, but it's a fact. Now you have to generate the economic growth that will make those demographic time bombs go away without detonating. All the chairman can say is, Thank goodness for technological revolutions-- and all the wealth they can create. 

Then there is, finally, the biggest demographic story of them all. It is the emergence, once and for all and in all its enormousness, of China. As George W. Bush now knows very well, this is the 800-pound geopolitical and economic gorilla of your lifetime. Unless Japan snaps out of it soon, China is likely to become the world's second- largest economy. For those of you running global businesses, it may well be the central strategic fact of your life. Indeed, for some of us geezers it already is. The opening orchestrated by Deng Xiaoping has been followed by the reforms of Zhu Rongzhi. They are entrenched, and they are irreversible. 

That's the first thing you need to keep in mind about China: Because of what has happened since 1979, because the vast, vast majority of the country's 1.3 billion people have benefited greatly as a result of its opening, there is no going back. 

Yes, there will be contretemps, as we have just seen. But if you had told anyone in July 1989, one month after the Tiananmen massacre, that China a decade later would be absorbing more than 70% of the foreign investment in Asia, he'd have said you were crazy. And he'd have been wrong. By the time you all retire, Chinese brands will probably be as familiar as Sony and Toyota. "This is a freight train," says Charles Li, who runs Merrill Lynch's investment banking business in Hong Kong, "and there is nothing that can derail it." 

It's quite a world you're getting. There are a lot of other problems, heaven knows: the environment; deep-seated poverty in Africa, Latin America, and the Asian subcontinent. But if you get the basics right, if you harness the technology now coming to the fore and let it generate rip-roaring growth, if you keep trading regimes open and make sure the rich world does not get away with pursuing "ladder-up economics"--protecting our current wealth at the expense of those trying to get rich too--the rest will fall into place. There seems, at the moment, little chance of a global conflict that could screw this up, but that now is your charge to keep, to make sure the 21st century does not in any way resemble its predecessor in its wars, hot and cold. 

And as I said, on this last point more than anything, failure is not an option. 

FEEDBACK: bpowell@fortunemail.com 

Quote: Anyone out there who thought you could become a millionaire by selling shoes over the Internet...well, now you know better. 

See also pages 140, 166 of same issue 

COLOR PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: COLLAGE BY ANN FIELD 


Document fortu00020010711dx5e000lk


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 187 *******************    



Breakaway (A Special Report): Technology 

Nerd Alert! How smart engineers turn into dumb bosses 

By Michaele Weissman 
1,825 words 
14 May 2001
The Wall Street Journal
R14 
English
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Even in the current slowdown, the U.S. economy is driven by nerds -- a term that recently morphed from an insult into a quasi-compliment. Nerds specialize in computer science, mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, biophysics, molecular biology, nanotechnology, bio-nano and who knows what. They are smart, sometimes arrogant, and not necessarily the most sociable folks you will ever meet. 

But what happens to these super-smart engineers and researchers when they start a business or have to be somebody's boss? Workplace experts say that a lack of people skills and business sense can turn brilliant techies into nerd bosses from hell. 

With technology now playing a major role in the economy, this rarely voiced problem has growing ramifications. The behavior of tech wizards now can make or break whole companies. As a result, business and engineering schools all over the country have begun to focus on this issue. 

By inclination and training, many techies prefer the pure world of numbers to the messy world of human interaction. Their work reinforces the predilection. Writing computer code or designing a high-tech product is a rigorous and often lonely enterprise, one where the tiniest mistake can lead to intractable bugs in the product. So, technical endeavors tend to breed perfectionism, isolation and a lone-wolf mentality -- all drawbacks once you turn into a boss. 

"Emotional intelligence," or EQ, is the term that academics use in discussing how to make a boss an effective "people person." Without EQ, even the most talented technologist may function in the office as a kind of idiot savant -- good at numbers, but clumsy and potentially destructive with people. Happily, EQ can be learned, if not by all, at least by most. And now many engineering and business schools are trying to teach it. 

Examples abound of managerial stupidity committed by bosses whose high IQs aren't matched by their EQs. Andy Iserson, manager of software development for PB Farradyne, a Rockville, Md., maker of software that delivers overhead highway messages to drivers, recalls a boss early in his programming career who was technically talented but couldn't listen, negotiate or understand the needs of young engineers starting out. "He didn't want to hear how long a complicated project would take," Mr. Iserson says. "He would say, `I am not going to wait. Do what it takes.' In a situation like this, the programmer is always losing" because he's always on the defensive. "Your work is late before you even get started." 

Fed up, Mr. Iserson did what a lot of skilled employees do when reporting to bosses who are mean-spirited or obtuse: He quit and went to a company where the boss knew how to treat employees. Lousy managers "drive people to leave, and then they blame their high turnover on the competitive labor market," he says, adding that even in a tight market happy employees generally stay put. 

Nerd managers have a reputation for obsessing more about technology than they do about people. Stan Wood, director of information technology for Optinel Systems, an Elkridge, Md., company that makes parts for optical communications networks, says engineers sometimes have trouble comprehending that their work serves the company and not the other way around. Instead of focusing on getting new products to market as quickly as possible, engineer managers sometimes fixate on creating "elegant code." It's one reason software companies are "notoriously late in delivering their products," Mr. Wood says. 

When he was running his own consulting business, Mr. Wood says, he often saw cases where "engineers would spend extra time writing an elaborate query" -- the statement that allows you to extract information from a database -- "when a simpler query would serve just as well. This approach doesn't add value to the customer," he says. "In fact, by slowing delivery, it detracts value." 

High-tech bosses also can be notorious micromanagers. Michael Howes, who will begin working as a business consultant after he graduates from the Yale School of Management later this month, says he once worked for a nice nerd whose micromanaging style undermined Mr. Howes's confidence and stymied his growth. For example, when confronted with a technical problem, his boss would "sit down and out loud go through his entire thought process -- and not let you leave his office until he had changed everything you intended to do." Mr. Howes struggled to adapt. But when that boss left, a new manager arrived and expressed frustration with Mr. Howes's passivity. "`You seem real smart,'" Mr. Howes says the new supervisor told him in bemusement, "`so why are you always in my office?'" 

Micromanaging, in fact, is the complaint leveled most often at "nerd" bosses. Entrepreneur and private venture investor Don Spero confesses that he was a micromanager during his first years of running a business. A major technology of the company -- Fusion Systems of Rockville, Md., which has interests in semiconductor-fabrication equipment -- was based on Dr. Spero's postdoctoral research in physics. "I thought I couldn't manage unless I could do every job myself," Dr. Spero recalls. "This kind of atmosphere demotivates people." 

Eventually, Dr. Spero realized that his do-everything-yourself style was counterproductive. "It was obvious that we were not building a healthy culture, and we weren't making progress at the rate I thought we should," he says. So the entrepreneurial physicist backed off and let others make decisions, even though such an approach was a stretch for him. When you start a company, Dr. Spero explains, "you have all the responsibility. You develop this attitude: I'll do it myself because then I'll know it will get done right." 

Dr. Spero had to make a conscious decision to transform himself into a real manager. First, he found mentors among more-seasoned CEOs. He made a concerted effort to really listen to his employees. And he learned to trust his own instincts. He also called upon his experience as an Olympic rower, harking back to the ways teams are motivated. 

Today, after dividing and selling his company -- the semiconductor-equipment arm went to Eaton Corp. -- Dr. Spero directs the University of Maryland's Dingman Center for Entrepreneurship. Dingman is one of the nation's 120 university-based centers that help entrepreneurs launch companies, many of which are based on technologies developed in university laboratories. Dr. Spero's own evolution as a manager serves him well dealing with the techies-with-a-business-plan at the entrepreneurship center. 

Educating technological elites isn't easy. First you have to pierce the armor of their arrogance, he says. "You have these very smart people," Dr. Spero explains. "They say to themselves, `If I can master biophysics, what's so difficult about a balance sheet, or sales, or human resources?' But the difference between success and failure is operations." 

Elizabeth Altman, senior director of a unit of Motorola Inc. that invests in and nurtures small technology companies, agrees. While she admits that techies occasionally possess "troublesome" personalities, "the real problem engineers face in the workplace is their lack of business skills. You need to train them to make decisions based on market criteria, not technical criteria." That means overcoming their "perfectionism" and helping them learn that "each product is not the last product," she says. 

Ms. Altman learned her business skills at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Mass., where she earned master's degrees in engineering and management in a joint program run by MIT's Sloan School of Management and its School of Engineering. 

The Leaders for Manufacturing program in which Ms. Altman participated is one of many initiatives at MIT that seek to tear down the walls separating engineering and business. The point is to help techies function on the factory floor, in the boardroom, the office and even in a social setting. (One part of MIT's entrepreneurship curriculum covers how to raise venture funds at a cocktail party.) 

As part of the program, future high-tech leaders learn to pay attention to what they feel inside and to what others express outwardly and through body language. This approach is important because so many business decisions involve factors that can't be quantified, Ms. Altman says. "Strategic alliances are relationships," she says. "They have to work as relationships between people and between companies." 

Communication is another skill emphasized in the "Leaders for Manufacturing" program. "We have some students here whose attitude is, `I just want to build something, so get out of my way,'" says John S. Carroll, a Sloan professor of behavioral and policy science. Students learn to persuade rather than intimidate through exercises, such as giving speeches where they take a view that isn't their own. "The brash young ones are the hardest ones to reach," says Prof. Carroll. "They have been successful all their lives doing what they are doing, and they may be more confident than is warranted." Feedback, including some delivered confidentially, helps the engineers in the program understand how they come across to others. 

That self-awareness helps prepare the techies for other realities of the business world. "Lone wolves build perpetually small companies," says Ken Morse, the director of MIT's Entrepreneurship Center. The point of all the Entrepreneurship Center efforts is to help MIT entrepreneurs avoid the failure so common to start-ups. 

To his students, Mr. Morse hammers hard at the importance of such nontech talents as selling. "It's sales -- not engineering -- that makes companies successful," he tells his students on every occasion imaginable. "To make sales, you have to understand the needs of your customers. And to understand your customers, you have to be able to talk to them." 

Mr. Morse and his colleagues also emphasize team building. "Eighty percent of companies started by engineers alone fail," he warns the engineers in his audience. 

The emphasis on merging engineering and business championed by the Sloan School and the Entrepreneurship Center now is spreading to other departments housed along the MIT corridor. Thomas Magnanti, a business-school professor and former director of the Leaders for Manufacturing program, was recently named dean of MIT's School of Engineering. Never before has a professor from the business school held this post. 

The new dean brings with him to the engineering side Sloan's emphasis on people and communication skills. Under his watch, MIT's engineering undergraduates must take a series of communication classes designed to improve their ability to speak, write, listen and interact. 

What Dean Magnanti is aiming for, he says, are "nerds who can communicate a passion for their technology -- nerds who have the skill to translate the intricacies of their technologies to broader audiences." In short, nerds who can lead. 

--- 

Ms. Weissman is a writer in Chevy Chase, Md. She can be reached at Breakaway@wsj.com 

Document j000000020010711dx5e00aye


More Like This

 Article 188 *******************    


Features/Post-Bubble America 

Okay, Now What? Four leading thinkers share their views on the market and the economy in this new, humbler era. 

Anna Bernasek; Robert Shiller; Chris Zook; Hal Varian; Michael Porter 
3,720 words 
11 June 2001
Fortune
98+ 
Issue: June 11, 2001 Vol. 143 No. 12 
English
(Copyright 2001) 

Remember the book Dow 36,000, the one that argued that stocks were still wildly undervalued? Go on, admit it: You were intrigued. If you didn't buy a copy, chances are you flipped through the pages. The book, published in late 1999, scarily close to what turned out to be the market's peak, was just one of many superbullish theories on the economy and its mind-numbing potential. And though few of us bought the arguments wholesale, many wondered if they could afford to ignore them. At the time, it seemed like everything in the economy had changed. Traditional principles of profit and loss were diminished, even ridiculed. We focused instead on the promise of new technologies- -the Internet, wireless communications, nanotechnology, whatever. Millions of investors bid against one another for a chance to own their little piece of the future. 

Alas, it turns out that the world hadn't changed so much after all. Some of the highest-flying companies have become modern-day Icaruses, and the miracle economy looks less miraculous by the day. Now some fear that we're on the precipice of a really nasty recession. So far--knock on wood--the worst hasn't happened. But we're still getting mixed signals from the economy. On the one hand, housing is strong, new jobless claims have fallen sharply, and inflation remains tame. On the other, factory output is contracting, companies have cut back on spending, and gas prices are surging. Some think a recovery has already begun; others see signs of further collapse. It seems people have reverted to their underlying personalities as they look ahead to the second half of the year and beyond--for some the glass is half empty, for others half full. 

It's not easy to cut through all the noise and confusion to get a fix on this new, post-bubble era we've entered. So FORTUNE asked some of our leading economic thinkers to do the work for us. 

Robert Shiller Professor of economics, Yale University 

When Alan Greenspan first used the term "irrational exuberance" in 1996, he was referring to a briefing he had received from Yale's Shiller. Shiller at the time was concerned that the market was overvalued and headed for a nasty fall. During the ensuing years, as the market went up and up, Shiller stuck to his guns and became the subject of good-natured merriment on Wall Street. Now, after one of the most significant market corrections in modern times, his steady judgment is no longer the subject of humor and is winning newfound respect. Here are his thoughts on the post-bubble economy. 

There's been nothing quite as dramatic as what we've just lived through, perhaps with the exception of 1929. When I bring that up people say I'm a doomsayer. But I don't think the aftermath of this bubble will be as severe as the aftermath of 1929. It will be more like the late '60s. 

After a long period of denial, we're waking up to the bubble. But there's still more waking up to do. I hope I'm wrong, but I think the market is still on the way down. You can see it in the rally of the past few weeks. There's a sense that we're back on track, and people don't want to be left out of the next big market move. Assuming that this rally also fizzles--and I think it will--and then the next rally fizzles, again and again, disappointment will set in. 

I think people will eventually come around to the view that new technology is absolutely wonderful, but it's not making me money in the stock market. Look at the auto industry. When autos became widely accepted, there was a huge boom in the stock market and then a shakeout. Many years later we have giant automakers and they're producing lots of cars, but the companies themselves aren't that highly valued. There's a lot of competition, and they aren't making huge profits. That's what's likely to happen to tech companies. Competition will mean they're going to have trouble making big profits. 

Of course technology is extremely exciting. It always has been. The technology that has been developed, particularly with the Internet, is very transformative. As we go on, there will be new, exciting things, but the stock market won't capture all the value created. So I don't think we'll go back to where we were in the market for a long time. The Nasdaq is going to disappoint, and it may not be back over 5000 for another 20 or 30 years. 

It reminds me of the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey and the whole era when that came out. If you look at that movie, released in 1968, everyone really exaggerated the rate of technological progress. The opening scene was a big space station where people were walking around, and it looked like a giant city. For me it's symbolic. In the late '60s people had an exaggerated impression of space. They talked a lot about how space technology was going to drive everything. Some even dreamed about building trains that would run on the moon. It was a national obsession. 

Our awakening to the realities of technology doesn't just apply to the Nasdaq, though. I think the broad market could move sideways for ten or even 20 years. Maybe by the year 2020 the Dow could still trade at 10,000. I'm not forecasting that--who can afford to?--but historically it's a plausible value for the Dow. People haven't really studied the data and don't appreciate that that kind of thing can happen when stocks are extremely highly valued. 

We're in for a sober period, a more chastened and humble era. People have been saying, "Everyone owns stock, so they're all thinking like stockholders." But when a person looks at his portfolio and says, "Well, I've only got $20,000 worth of stock," he'll see that's not going to make him rich. Then people will focus on what's truly important to their future, their lifetime earnings. And maybe they'll think, "I ought to join a union to protect that." I can see that dawning on people. And in this new realism, we may see the birth of a new labor movement. 

We focus so much on the market, it's like a game, perhaps the national pastime. On the way up it's a lot of fun to pay attention to a rising market. But in a sour market, the continual exposure to it may have a perverse effect on demand for stocks. People will be pained by the depressing news. They may decide they'd rather sit out and watch. 

It's already happening, at least with the Nasdaq. So I think there will be a whole new story that captures our attention. We're going to see alternative kinds of investment vehicles made possible in part by the Internet and computer technology. We may see Websites selling all sorts of hedging and risk-management vehicles. Twenty years from now, we'll have forgotten all about the Dow. It'll be at 10,000, but nobody will care, because there will be other kinds of things to invest in. 

Chris Zook Director of Bain & Co. and head of its Worldwide Strategy Practice 

It's hard to find a company or CEO that hasn't crossed paths with Zook. Head of Bain & Co.'s worldwide strategy practice, Zook has spent his career advising firms on how to develop their strategic plans. Zook's recently published book, Profit From the Core--Growth Strategy in an Era of Turbulence, takes on the problem of setting corporate direction in an era of many competing opportunities and demands. 

We've just experienced an era of massive, rapid growth where business seemed easy. During the next few years we're going to witness a "perfect storm" brewing for many companies as three dangerous forces collide: high growth expectations with companies facing a slowdown, severe penalties for shortfall as boards dump experienced CEOs and shareholders dump stocks at record rates, and profits that are harder to come by. I see the game getting rougher for firms just as the goal posts are being moved back, and the penalty for missing a goal will be more severe than ever. 

So many companies have overreached for growth--Lucent, Gillette, Amazon, Priceline--the list goes on. They've grown too quickly, overextended themselves, and lost profitability. Since 85% of companies are still forecasting earnings and revenues at levels that only l0% have achieved historically, we can expect more and more shortfalls. And that will create a lot of corporate identity crises. 

Companies have to return to their core and ask the hard questions about their distinct strengths like never before. It's a time for focus and specialization. And we'll see an era in which companies profit from their core. Boards and shareholders will be more discerning, questioning departures from that strategy with a new skepticism. Focused, dominant companies that grow their core methodically and fast will be valued more than ever. 

Compare Dell and Compaq, for instance. Just weeks ago Dell became the No. 1 PC company in the world, overtaking Compaq and showing an accelerated rate of market-share gain in its core products. Dell has focused relentlessly on productivity growth in its PC business, driving inventory down to just a couple of days while Compaq is up closer to 60 days. By doing that, Dell has raised its return on capital to huge levels that Compaq can't begin to match. Over the past ten years Dell has earned a cumulative profit of $7.3 billion, while Compaq has lost $1.8 billion. This has fueled a reinvestment gap between the two that is widening over time. 

Yet as this was going on, rather than repair its core, Compaq chose to invest far from it. Compaq purchased the enormous service business from Digital, bought Tandem Computers, and even made a $100 million investment in biotechnology last October. By contrast, Dell has avoided major acquisitions, choosing to focus on acquiring customers one at a time and improving its cost position. Dell knows who it is and what its core is, while Compaq has gone through a series of midlife crises, trying to discern what it wants to be and losing precious time with each new identity crisis. 

So how can firms avoid a midlife crisis today? First, go back and rigorously identify your core business. Ask what is your strength and what areas you have to be in to defend your core. Before undertaking any new growth initiatives, management has to decide whether they've fully mined growth potential from their core business. And if the answer is yes, the core has been fully exploited, they better take another look. 

Firms have to take an inventory of growth prospects around their core and ask, Does this initiative strengthen my core? Am I going to win? Will this project use the company's strengths--the existing customer base, personal relationships, knowledge, and facilities? Finally, will this initiative bring attractive, sustainable profits? That's the recipe for success in this era. It's hard, and it takes discipline. 

Hal Varian Dean of the School of Information Management and Systems and professor of economics, University of California at Berkeley 

When Varian's book Information Rules came out in 1998 the new economy seemed to be changing all the rules. Varian reminded us that technology changes but basic economics does not. He encouraged firms to adopt new technology but not to abandon the basic rules of business surrounding investment and profitability. 

The way I look at it, the tech industry experienced three positive demand shocks: telecom deregulation in 1996, the ephemeral Y2K in 1998-99, and Internet mania into the year 2000. We had these positive shock waves hitting one after the other and overlapping, all during a big investment boom. As the shock waves faded, supply was far ahead of demand, and companies are now trying to absorb the investments they made and figure out ways to create efficiencies. I think we'll see a slow period in IT investment for awhile. And when it recovers, IT investment will grow at a more reasonable 8% or 10%, not the 30% rates we saw in the late '90s. 

Investing in IT is different from investing in a lot of other capital goods. I like to call it the fungibility characteristic of IT. With most capital it's only good for one thing, and if that market doesn't materialize, you're stuck. But look at things like disk farms, fiber optics, or generic PCs. That equipment is easily redeployed. You may set up a big database to trade MP3 files on the Web, and if that market doesn't materialize, you can redeploy it to storing supermarket scanner data. From the viewpoint of the economy, it's not a lost investment. 

The main question is where are we in terms of integrating this technology into our economy. Are we 90% along, 50%, 10%? If you want my opinion, I'd say we're only 15% of the way. There are a lot of benefits yet to come. We've seen things happening in some industries, and as others imitate, we'll get more benefits. 

Look at how slowly electricity impacted the economy. Paul David at Stanford examined the productivity effects of electricity and found that, while electricity was widely deployed in 1890, the effects didn't show up in any meaningful way until the 1920s. That's because the original model was to take a big factory and put a giant electrical motor at one end and drive all the equipment off of one shaft running down the center of the building. But with miniaturized motors you could change the flow of production and had much more flexibility. It took a long time to discover that. If you look today at supply-chain management, intranets, and other tools we have in place, it will take a long time to change business processes to take advantage of all those technologies. And there are plenty of companies that have barely begun that transition. 

What's happened is that companies have got to the first stage. They've bought these big data-storage systems from DMC, Sun, and IBM, and they're storing data. But the task of really understanding and analyzing that data proceeds much more slowly. Take something that's been done for a while, like supermarket scanner data. That's had a big impact on inventory management, product placement, marketing expenses, and as a result, supermarkets have enjoyed considerable cost savings. We don't think of it as a sexy idea application. But it's in that kind of system--that can track transactions, analyze them, and improve them--where the potential lies. 

I've been working on history lately, and one of the most interesting things to me has been the development of standardized parts in the U.S. You know, that took 130 years. A lot was purely mechanical difficulties to get the technology right, but then there were huge social and organizational problems. When the U.S. went to standardized gauge for railroad tracks, for instance, there were riots, because workers who transferred goods between different-gauge trains were going to be thrown out of their jobs. Today the airlines are an example of the same thing. They're all working on standardized e-ticketing. But travel agents are resisting, because they'll lose business. 

We've entered a period of experimentation and refining. I think we'll see a fair amount of tinkering with business processes to get them working more smoothly, and that's going to be a slow, steady process. We're past the era of the category killer. Now we're in an era of relentless improvement, where a lot of small things will accumulate to be tremendously significant. 

So you have to look beyond the current fluctuations to recognize that technology is going to keep getting cheaper, more powerful, and will be more widely used. The challenge will be to find all the little places where the use of IT will really pay off. 

Michael Porter Professor, Harvard Business School 

Porter is a busy man these days. During the heady days of the new economy some felt he was out of favor, as he remained a skeptic. New- economy consultants dubbed him a corporate-strategy "sourpuss." Yet today his views are more sought after than ever. 

Believe it or not, the news is good on the U.S. economy. Just because there was an Internet bubble doesn't mean there will be an end to investment in the American economy, or throughout the rest of the world. For example, information technology spending as a percentage of the U.S. economy has been going up very steadily for 25 years and will continue to do so. 

I'm not an expert on whether IT spending will recover in the third or fourth quarter, but I don't think we should feel like this is over. The best way to understand that is to recognize that the Internet era is not particularly new. It's the latest generation in the continual evolution of IT, an enduring long-term phenomenon that will go on for ten or 20 years at least. We're going through a classic cycle where people overdemanded, then overbuilt. Now they'll have to underbuy and underbuild until we get back to the trend line. 

But you have to put that slowdown in context. The rest of our economic circumstances are very positive. Productivity growth has been remarkably strong. It seems to be widespread and better than many overseas economies. There's no other competitive power of any significance on the horizon. Even beyond the near future we're not threatened by Japan or by Germany. The U.S. remains a leader in all technologies that are dramatically impacting the world economy: health, bioscience, financial services, and IT. 

What isn't yet recognized is that we're in a situation where, although unemployment will rise during this slowdown, the degree to which unemployment spikes up will be capped by very slow growth in the work force. On a net basis, there won't be appreciable numbers of new workers entering the force for a long time. That means most people of working age will have jobs, and tight labor conditions will put pressure on the corporate sector to look after employees. U.S. firms have a long history during ups and downs of hiring and firing, because there has always been a steady supply of labor. We're seeing a little of that behavior today, with companies announcing layoffs. But we'll gradually see a situation where companies have to hang on to their work force during cyclical downturns to capture growth later. 

That bodes well for consumer spending and the whole process by which the skill level of our work force can improve. I think there's going to be a tendency for inequality to decrease as the skills ladder becomes easier to climb. Companies that are hiring will have to go the extra mile and find people who may not have the skills now but can develop them. This is a very important development for the cohesion of U.S. society. 

My overall take on this bubble is that the U.S., unlike Japan, is an economy where adjustment processes occur very rapidly. The U.S. has already made adjustments. We've seen hundreds and hundreds of companies go bankrupt already since the peak of the Nasdaq. Contrast this with Japan. In Japan, companies don't go bankrupt, they get propped up. They don't lay off workers, and they don't move on. I think the U.S. is adjusting very rapidly, and that leads me to believe the recovery from this bubble will be short. 

I'm quite optimistic about the robustness of our economy. I think we're relearning some fundamental truths. The most important is that the only thing that creates economic value is profitability. We experimented with all kinds of other thinking, and it's turned out to be wrong. It doesn't help that some firms also started fudging profitability, and that's being addressed. But in this post-bubble era, you're not going to see valuations move to the level they did in the late '90s. Valuations will be based on tougher measures of profitability. I think we have a stronger foundation for assessing value today. 

Although most of the stock market fluctuation occurred only on paper, I saw the bubble era as tremendously bad for companies and their strategies. I think it led to mistake after mistake, and I see the burst bubble as a positive development--one that will keep us anchored in reality, focusing on basic principles of profit and cost efficiency, at least until next time, when a new generation forgets all this again. 

FEEDBACK: abernasek@fortunemail.com 

Quote: Twenty years from now we'll have forgotten all about the Dow. There'll be a whole new story. 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREG MILLER ROBERT SHILLER Still a bear when it comes to the market, but a bull on the economy. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREG MILLER CHRIS ZOOK thinks the game is getting tougher for firms right when expectations and penalties are high and getting even higher. COLOR PHOTO: THOMAS BROENING HAL VARIAN believes the Internet is transforming business and there's still a long way to go--it will just take time. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREG MILLER MICHAEL PORTER argues that the burst bubble is actually positive for the economy. 


Document fortu00020010711dx6b000pl


More Like This

 Article 189 *******************    


Industrial Management & Technology 

The Soot That Could Change The World; One of today's hot technologies, the making of amazing ; molecules called nanotubes, is moving into products. 

Ivan Amato 
4,162 words 
25 June 2001
Fortune
168[B] 
Vol. 143, Issue: 14 
English
(Copyright 2001) 

This past Valentine's Day, a year-old Houston startup called Carbon Nanotechnologies Inc., or CNI, began FedExing jelly-jar-sized containers of a high-tech soot so coveted that buyers have been willing to plunk down $500 a gram for the stuff. That's $14,000 per ounce, far more than the price of gold. Although this jet-black material resembles what you'd wipe up from your fireplace, its champions talk as if it were the next steel or silicon. "This product will change the world," says Sylvain Hoebanx, president of Nanoledge in Montpellier, France, where he and his colleagues expect to spearhead his country's bid to capitalize on the new material. 

Like their alchemist predecessors, the founders of CNI, Nanoledge, and other companies that are sprouting like crocuses in early spring know that appearances deceive. If you were to look closely enough at this soot to see its individual molecules, you would shake your head in disbelief. Before your eyes would be long cylinders of what appears to be molecular-scale chicken wire capped on either end by halves of soccer balls. They're known as carbon nanotubes. They are also called buckytubes, because of their resemblance to the geodesic structures designed by the 20th-century American engineer Buckminster Fuller. To any chemist's eye, they're drop-dead gorgeous. 

Even more appealing are nanotubes' potential uses, says Rice University chemist Richard E. Smalley, a Nobel laureate and CNI co- founder. As he puts it, "They are expected to produce fibers 100 times stronger than steel at only one-sixth the weight--almost certainly the strongest fibers that will ever be made out of anything." In a visionary moment, Smalley talks of nanotubes braided into a cable that could support an elevator linking the earth's surface with a geostationary space platform 22,000 miles above the equator. 

Unmatched strength is just one amazing property of these tiny structures. Researchers have found that buckytubes conduct electricity as well as copper does. They also channel heat at least as well as the world's best heat conductor--diamond. What's more, when a nanotube's chicken-wire structure twists around like the stripes of a barber pole, it behaves like a semiconductor. This capability boosts hopes for an era of transistors, wires, and other electronic devices thousands of times smaller than those in today's chips. In such an era, nanotube enthusiasts say, storage devices that fit in a shirt pocket could hold the contents of the Library of Congress--a point made by former President Clinton in his 2000 State of the Union address. 

As Clinton was making his remarks, buckytubes were emerging from a decade-long phase of basic lab studies into the early stages of an entrepreneurial product-development derby. Several trends have been helping this transition along: 

--Increasing amounts of government and corporate money are nourishing nanotechnology, the R&D movement that includes nanotubes. The biggest sources are the federal government's National Nanotechnology Initiative, which has $422 million in funds this year, and Mitsubishi Corp.'s new $100 million venture fund to support the development of all-carbon materials. 

--Dramatic price breaks have taken away some of the hesitancy of would-be product developers. For example, CNI's $500-a-gram price is down from the $2,000 charged by its noncommercial precursor. Other sources offer nanotube materials for much less, and prices are expected to keep falling steeply as production volumes climb. 

--Many companies, including South Korea's Samsung, America's Motorola, and Japan's Ise Electronics, are working on what they bet will be the first killer applications of buckytubes: electronic displays. Carbon-based screens scarcely thicker than this issue of FORTUNE could render higher-resolution images than today's cathode- ray-tube (CRT) and flat-panel displays while using less power. Also in development is a new generation of giant, lower-cost illuminated signs like those in urban crossroads such as Times Square and the Ginza. 

The genesis of today's buckytube excitement was a 1985 discovery by three men: Harold Kroto of the University of Sussex in England, Rick Smalley, and his Rice colleague Robert Curl. In the laboratory they created soccer-ball-shaped molecules called C60, which became known also as buckyballs and buckminsterfullerene. Made of 60 carbon atoms arranged in a soccer-ball tiling of pentagons and hexagons, C60 represented a new structural form of carbon, the same element as diamond and graphite and the one most central to life. In Kroto's words, "The structure is too beautiful to not exist." 

But there was a problem. The initial lab technique produced vanishingly tiny quantities of buckyballs. The situation improved in 1990, when scientists in Heidelberg, Germany, and in Tucson published a paper in Nature describing how to make larger quantities. Just send high-voltage electrical sparks between pairs of closely spaced graphite rods spiced with metal-based catalysts, and you could create a rarefied rain of C60 and related all-carbon stuff. Soon several laboratories were making enough fullerene material--as it is generically known--to sell. A buckyball heyday seemed in the offing. To date, though, buckyball products remain in the development stage. 

Then, in 1991, something unexpected happened at the NEC company in Tokyo. While using an electron microscope to examine the fullerene soot he had made, researcher Sumio Iijima observed something that would steal the thunder from buckyballs: some of the tiniest tubes of carbon anyone had ever seen. Tens of thousands of times thinner than a human hair, these structures turned out to be like a retracted antenna, a nesting of tubes within tubes. They would become known as multiwall carbon nanotubes, to distinguish them from the simplest of all nanotubes, the one-atom-thick structures referred to as single- wall nanotubes. Later that year, at a technical meeting in Philadelphia, research- ers shared their early calculations about just how strong, conductive, and otherwise talented carbon nanotubes were likely to be. 

At the same meeting, Smalley recalls, materials scientist Mildred Dresselhaus of MIT coined the term "buckytube." She also told him that he almost certainly had been making nanotubes in his lab without knowing it. That's when he and many other buckyball researchers jumped ship to embrace buckytubes. Smalley decided to concentrate on the single-wall variety, since it would be easier to study, measure confidently, and understand than the more variable multiwall type. Single-wall nanotubes are also smaller--a mere nanometer (a billionth of a meter) or so in diameter and up to a micron (a millionth of a meter) or so long. Nanotubes of this type sufficient to span the 250,000 miles between the earth and the moon at perigee, Smalley and a colleague once calculated, could be loosely rolled into a ball the size of a poppy seed. 

The challenge was to produce meaningful quantities of nanotubes, whether single- or multi-wall. For several years, what researchers could make was often a mixture of both types, along with annoying impurities about as interesting as fireplace soot. But in 1995, Smalley's group, for one, found it could generate nearly pure nanotube dust using a so-called laser oven. By laser-blasting targets of graphite laced with metallic catalysts that served as tiny molecule-building platforms, the researchers on a good day could create as much as a gram of nearly pure single-wall nanotubes. 

The growing demand for buckytubes prompted the creation of Tubes@Rice, a university-sponsored enterprise. In September 1998 the first shipments of gram- and subgram-sized buckytube samples started moving from Houston to points around the world at a standard price of $2,000 per gram. A handful of other small suppliers began making various kinds of buckytubes, using a variety of methods. Still sorely lacking was a process that could be scaled up to make pounds, if not tons, of buckytubes. 

Pasha Nikolaev, then one of Smalley's graduate students, made an important leap in 1998. Pasha, as he is most often known, persuaded Smalley to let him try feeding carbon monoxide gas into the laser oven under higher pressure than anyone had tried before. When Pasha examined the oven's quartz tube within which the buckytubes normally form, he noticed a black film on one end that peeled away like skin. "He went downstairs to the electron microscope and saw he had nanotubes," and lots of them, recalls CNI-co-founder Ken Smith. 

From Pasha's hunch has evolved the so-called high-pressure carbon monoxide process, or HipCO. Smalley says it has tremendous potential because it produces 98% pure single-wall nanotubes and can be scaled up to make more of them at a lower cost. With a viable process in hand, Smalley was able to win over Bob Gower, a Ph.D. chemist with a track record in turning money-losing petrochemical companies in Texas into healthy billion-dollar commercial engines. Gower provided his managerial expertise and over $1.3 million dollars of his own money to rev CNI up to speed. 

CNI, having made its first shipments this past February, is already bursting out of its academic digs. Gower helped secure laboratory and pilot-plant space at a facility run by the industrial engineering and construction firm Kellogg Brown & Root. In April the company announced that two other Houston technology investors had kicked in $15 million in venture money. Within a few years, says HipCO co-developer and CNI co-founder Dan Colbert, the company ought to have learned enough from a pilot plant to build a full-sized factory with annual buckytube production measured in tons. 

Already forming is what appears to be a buckytube technology chain extending from raw-material suppliers to buckytube-based product designers. On the supply end are a handful of competitors whose prices vary from CNI's $500 a gram all the way down to several dollars a gram for unpurified multiwall nanotubes. Because the quality, purity, and exact form of buckytubes vary, it's tricky to make meaningful price comparisons. 

For example, CNI is the only company that makes single-wall nanotubes with its patented HipCO process. Others, such as MER, an advanced-materials firm in Tucson, make multiwall nanotubes using techniques such as arc-discharge systems, which rely on high-voltage sparks to zap the carbon in graphite electrodes into fullerenes. Still others, including Nanolab, a startup in Watertown, Mass., make nanotubes via chemical-vapor deposition, in which a carbon-bearing gas like acetylene is leaked into a chamber where heat breaks up the gas molecules. This liberates carbon atoms, which reassemble into buckytubes. 

Last summer, says MER President Raouf O. Loutfy, the seed was planted for a buckytube pipeline of unprecedented size. That's when his company joined forces with Japan's Mitsubishi Corp. and Research Corp. Technologies, a technology development company in Tucson, to form Fullerene International Corp. As part of the venture, MER built a large arc-discharge reactor at Osaka's Hongo Chemical Co., where, Loutfy says, engineers have already ramped multiwall nanotube production up to a kilogram per day or more. At full capacity, the reactor is designed to produce 30 kilograms per day. 

According to the newsletter Japan New Materials Alert, the Japanese government's National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research is working with chemical giant Showa Denko of Tokyo on an even bigger nanotube effort. These partners have built a chemical- vapor-deposition reactor designed to produce hundreds of kilograms of nanotubes a day, says Loutfy, who visited Japanese nanotube researchers last winter. Inside the reactor, catalyst particles and a carbon-bearing feed gas interact at temperatures over 1,000[degrees] C. to yield nanotubes. Material from this government-supported reactor, Loutfy says, is being given away to the country's high-tech companies in hopes of stimulating product development. 

With so many processes producing a variety of nanotubes and everybody trying to patent whatever seems valuable, the nascent industry appears to be headed toward an intellectual-property war. The potential stakes are huge. CNI projects that as buckytube prices tumble, more and more of a wide-ranging set of markets totaling $100 billion a year will open up. Get the price of nanotubes down to $15,000 a pound, or about $33 a gram, the company estimates, and a yearly supply of one ton would be able to support the manufacture of several billion dollars' worth of flat-panel displays for PCs and television sets. Knock down the price to about $10,000, and buckytubes become ingredients for making stealthy, radar-absorbing aircraft skin and novel microwave antennas. 

As prices go lower, CNI figures, nanotubes would become far more pervasive. At $200 a pound, they could find everyday use as additives to plastics to create lightweight materials for shielding laptop computers, cell phones, pagers, and other small, portable electronic devices from electromagnetic interference. At that price buckytubes would also begin making sense for use in batteries. Make the stuff as cheap as wood, and you could start making fabrics, beams, and large structural members. This would lead to lighter-weight power- transmission wires, cars, aircraft, spacecraft--maybe even those elevator cables to geostationary satellites. 

It will take more than cheap and abundant supplies to usher in the nanotube age. One of the most far-reaching applications--molecular electronic chips and devices hundreds or thousands of times smaller than today's microcircuitry--wouldn't require huge quantities of buckytubes at all. However, it would take the ability to chemically modify, manipulate, and arrange a material that's extremely difficult to work with. The goal is a long way off, but researchers are taking steps toward it. In a recent issue of Science, for example, researchers at IBM reported that they had succeeded in building tiny electronic switches made with carbon nanotubes. 

The quest to develop know-how for transforming nanotubes into products has become a cottage industry, mostly populated by university scientists. Cynthia Kuper, a recent alumna of Rick Smalley's lab, is as gleamy-eyed about the buckytube future as you might expect of a 28-year-old who is president of one of the latest startups, Versilant Nanotechnologies in Philadelphia. Operating initially on her own money and a modest Small Business Innovation Research grant from NASA, she says Versilant will buy raw nanotubes from suppliers and process them into aligned arrangements, fabrics, or, in her words, "things you can see, touch, feel, and buy." 

In the raw, Kuper points out, buckytubes come out in tangles, often referred to as "ropes." These aren't good for much; researchers are just now developing ways to process the stuff into more useful forms. For example, Smalley's group relies on magnetic fields to align buckytubes like stacks of molecular-scale logs. Others have used liquid flows, electric fields, and other means to arrange buckytubes into sheets and even fine molecular-scale grids potentially suitable for ultradense data storage. 

The image that Kuper floats for illustrating how amazing and versatile buckytube products could be is a military one: "Make a jacket for a soldier out of a single piece of fabric made only of single-wall nanotubes. The only things that vary in this fabric are the density of the tubes, the way they are aligned, and their doping, which controls their electronic properties. If you can integrate that into a fabric, it will have three-dimensional circuitry with computing power like nothing we have ever seen. It will also be a ballistic shield to stop bullets and a portable power supply--all in one material." 

Even as fullerene visions like Kuper's proliferate, and as supplies of buckytubes go up and prices go down, their appeal increases for another surprising reason. Call it molecular mystique. Remarkably, the more ball-like fullerenes have been found in ancient rocks and in detritus from meteorite impacts. "They're also made in every candle flame and in forest fires," says Smalley, whose initial scientific passion has evolved into something more. "I get the feeling," he goes on, "that something incredible is unfolding, and that we have only seen a little piece of it so far.... It's been a religious experience to see this happen." 

There was a religious connection of sorts for one financial supporter's entry into the most likely first killer app in the buckytube arena--the $40 billion flat-panel-display industry. It began after services one Sunday last September at the Trinity Episcopal Church in Stamford, Conn. That's when Andrew Hanson, an angel investor, had a discussion with fellow churchgoer Thomas Abraham, head of the advanced materials group at Business Communications Corp., a consulting firm in nearby Norwalk. As a consequence, by the end of the year Hanson had put down a big chunk of change, but not in the offering plate. "Six figures is the right ballpark," he says. 

Abraham told Hanson about his company's new report on carbon nanotubes, which was released last November and sells for $3,995 a copy. Within months Hanson had taken the report's author, Sam Brauer, to lunch, learned what he could about nanotubes, and sent his check to Nanolab, the Watertown, Mass., startup. There, chemical engineer and company president David Carnahan grows, in his words, "grass fields of nanotubes on substrates," which the company sells to others trying to develop computer displays, batteries, or fuel cells. 

If Nanolab grows as Hanson and Carnahan hope it will, within a few years it will become a premier player in the business of making computer screens. A new generation of the flat-panel type, known as carbon nanotube field-effect displays, or CNT-FEDs, is the first bigtime candidate for nanotube applications. The hope is that TV screens and those monster monitors on millions of desktop computers worldwide, which are TV-like CRTs, can be squashed into thin, widely affordable nanotube display panes. Compared with CRTs, and perhaps even with the liquid-crystal displays that are standard in today's laptops, nanotube displays could produce crisper images while using less power and could ultimately be cheaper to make. 

"My initial take on the field was one of skepticism, but when I got into it, I saw things," says Brauer, author of Business Communications' nanotube report. One of the things he saw was a demo of a palm-sized CNT-FED made with billions of carbon nanotubes, each serving as a tiny electron gun whose diminutive bullets stimulate the color-emitting phosphors painted on the inside surfaces of the display's screen. The demo screen, made by a research team led by Jong Min Kim at Samsung's Advanced Institute of Technology in Suwon, South Korea, was unveiled in April 1999 in Dubrovnik, Croatia, at the Society for Information Display's annual conference. By year-end, the team was showing off a nine-inch version. Last May and December, it demonstrated 15-inch CNT-FED displays. 

Although observers say that none of these is good enough or cheap enough yet to compete with the liquid-crystal or plasma flat panels currently in use, they have made Samsung the company to beat. "This year the mission of our team is to develop the key technologies using small seven-inch screens for technological confirmation before moving to larger ones," says Naesung Lee, Samsung's CNT-FED project manager. He says his company is targeting the 20- to 40-inch TV market, for which neither liquid crystal nor any other emerging display technology has secured a dominant position. If development continues as planned, Lee expects Samsung to launch CNT-FEDs in as little as three years. 

Motorola, also in the CNT-FED fray, won't reveal much about what it is working on. "We have demonstrators, but we haven't shown them publicly," says researcher Ken Dean. Meanwhile, collaborating researchers at Japan's Mie University and Ise Electronics, a subsidiary of Noritake Co., have been showing off their own carbon- nanotube-based display prototypes. Rather than steering initially toward the TV and monitor market, Ise aims to make enormous electronic billboards, like those that illuminate Times Square, far more affordable. 

Furthest along in the development pipeline is a cylindrical lighting element roughly an inch in diameter that resembles an old radio vacuum tube. Inside each element is a cathode made with a forest of nanotubes like those Nanolab makes. When voltage is applied, electrons stream from the nanotubes toward a phosphor- coated aluminum membrane, sending out bright light from the element's glass enclosure. 

"These elements can be used as pixels in giant outdoor displays and light sources for liquid-crystal-display projectors," says Yahachi Saito, a professor of electrical and electronic engineering at Mie University, where he works on the project. Notes Saito: "In the field of large-scale displays, reduction of power consumption is of vital importance." Of the various display technologies now under consideration, he adds, carbon-nanotube-based displays are expected to require the least power. 

Somewhat further in the future are other potential billion-dollar markets for buckytubes. Nanolab and CNI, among others, see many possibilities. Batteries made with carbon nanotubes, for example, ought to achieve much higher "energy densities" than today's batteries by packing charged particles more efficiently than the graphite anodes of lithium batteries. The payoff would be a battery that lasts twice as long as today's or weighs half as much. 

Buckytubes could also be used to make "supercapacitors" for cars. Every time a driver steps on the brakes, cars waste tremendous amounts of mechanical energy as heat. But the enormous amount of surface area harbored by even tiny amounts of nanotubes presents an intriguing opportunity to convert that energy into electrical power. "If you want to capture that energy, you need something that can absorb it all at once," says Nanolab's Carnahan. The car's brakes would not be lined with nanotubes, but the energy released by stopping could be converted to electricity in the engine. The electrical charges thus created need to hang out somewhere, and surfaces are great places for that. A capacitor packed with buckytubes could capture far more of this energy than present "regenerative" braking systems. 

This same surface-area trait makes carbon nanotubes an excellent candidate material for fuel cells. These convert chemical fuel directly and cleanly into electricity via catalyzed chemical reactions, and a layer of buckytubes could store that electricity more efficiently. (For more on fuel cells, see the following article.) In the back of everyone's mind, too, is the long-term hope that enough buckytubes will become available for making new reinforced polymer composites for spacecraft, planes, and other vehicles. Moreover, if chemists become adept at modifying them so that they can become the basis of molecular electronic chips, a nanotube-based microprocessor would make today's Pentium IV circuitry seem as oversized as arrays of vacuum tubes compared with today's chips. 

For now, the biggest market for carbon nanotubes is still, as it always has been, in raw material for the R&D community. In his report, Brauer estimates that carbon nanotube sales reached just $1.4 million last year. He nevertheless predicts that sales of nanotubes and the products they make possible will grow to about $400 million by 2004, or perhaps to $1 billion by that time if the cost of nanotubes dips as substantially as its champions promise. An age of carbon nanotubes may not be right around the corner. But just about everybody working with them believes these beautiful molecules are looking more and more like the basis of some very good stuff indeed. 

FEEDBACK: amato@erols.com 

Quote: By achieving higher energy density, batteries made with carbon nanotubes might last twice as long as today's. 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENT HUMPHREYS Stone, bronze, iron, steel, plastic, and silicon all became the flesh of new technological eras. Will carbon nanotubes, like the ones in these gloved hands, be next? COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENT HUMPHREYS Mr. Nanotubes. Nobel laureate Richard E. Smalley holds a precious jar of them. His new company, CNI of Houston, has begun shipping to product developers. COLOR PHOTO: RAIMUND KOCH The entrepreneurs of Nanolab, a Massachusetts startup (from left): David Carnahan, Krzysztof Kempa, and Zhifeng Ren are banking on a chemical-vapor deposition system to produce carbon nanotubes that would wind up in computer displays, batteries, and other products. B/W PHOTO Field of dreams. Nanolab's nanotubes, which are grown with carbon-bearing vapor on substrates, resemble waves of grain. COLOR PHOTO: DR. DANIEL T. COLBERT Like chicken wire. This computer model portrays the molecular structure of a carbon nanotube, in this case chemically modified to create an open end. 


Document fortu00020010718dx6p00001


More Like This

 Article 190 *******************    



Technology (A Special Report) --- In The Lab: Window Into the Future --- At Microsoft's research division, scientists spend their days studying technology that may one day lead to new products; Then again, it may not 

By Rebecca Buckman 
2,093 words 
25 June 2001
The Wall Street Journal
R19 
English
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

REDMOND, WASH. -- Want to play poker with Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer? 

You can if you hang out with some of the tech heads who work in Microsoft Corp.'s big research division. Among the futuristic gadgets and games they're developing are "avatars," or physical representations of people, that could appear on computer screens during video games or an instant-messaging session. A computerized poker game whose players include onscreen figures bearing the facial likeness of Messrs. Gates and Ballmer is the creation of Microsoft researcher Alex Colburn, an avatar expert. When Mr. Colburn gives the command, both men take their seats with a loud whoosh at a virtual green-felt game table. 

Since Mr. Gates, Microsoft's chairman, and Mr. Ballmer, the chief executive, agreed to have their faces digitally photographed with a video camera for the project, the images look pretty realistic. But neither man's avatar has hair. And Mr. Colburn hopes to improve the game's lip-synching, so it looks as though the players are actually saying "deal" or "fold" at the appropriate times. Right now, the Gates and Ballmer figures "just flap their lips when . . . talking," Mr. Colburn explains. 

As frivolous as the poker game may seem, it is all part of Microsoft's commitment to research and development. Unlike some newer technology companies without huge cash reserves, Microsoft spends large sums on basic computer-science research that might or might not find its way into new products, such as games or new software. It does that through a quasi-academic pure-research division -- Microsoft Research, where scientists like Mr. Colburn get to devise the technology of the future. 

"You should try some [risky] things like that if you're a company our size," Mr. Ballmer said in an interview earlier this year, after Microsoft's research group trotted out many of its showiest projects at a technology conference in San Jose, Calif. "Let's say 70% of [research] sees the light of day . . . that's a good payback." 

This year, projects at Microsoft Research will receive about $250 million of the $4 billion Microsoft plans to spend on research-and-development activities. Last year, the company spent about $3.8 billion, or more than 16% of its total revenue, on research and development. 

Many prominent Microsoft products are the result of initial tinkering at Microsoft Research, which has a full-time staff of about 500 employees filling two buildings on a far corner of Microsoft's sprawling campus here. The products include the ClearType typeface used to read electronic books and the still-unreleased Tablet PC, a powerful, notebook-sized computer that looks like an Etch-a-Sketch toy. It should be able to recognize handwriting and convert it into text so that people can take notes right on the computer's screen, instead of typing on a keyboard, during meetings. 

Microsoft, founded by Mr. Gates and Paul Allen in 1975, is trying to emulate the success of storied research labs at much older companies, such as International Business Machines Corp., Xerox Corp. and AT&T Corp.'s Bell Labs, now part of Lucent Technologies Inc. In some ways, Microsoft doesn't yet measure up: Those companies boast Nobel Prize winners and huge, famous inventions like the transistor and the touch-tone telephone. They also do basic research in areas including physics. (Microsoft notes that it does have three winners of the Turing Award, which the company says is comparable to a Nobel Prize for computer science.) 

But even with those impressive accomplishments -- and as overall corporate R&D spending in the U.S. increases -- some big companies are spending a smaller percentage of their revenue on research. IBM spent 5.8% of its revenue on R&D in its last fiscal year, down slightly from 6% in 1999 and 6.2% in 1998. A spokesman notes that IBM remains committed to research, and has hired 100 new researchers in the past two years. The company is simply trying "to invest our R&D dollars more intelligently," he says. 

Equally worrisome to some academics is that many information-technology companies are devoting more and more of their research dollars to pure product development. It's a trend some fear could stunt true scientific innovation, particularly as federal support for technology research has remained flat or even declined over the past decade. 

"For most companies, R&D is D," says Edward Lazowska, chairman of the computer-science department at the University of Washington in Seattle, who also sits on a technical advisory board for Microsoft's research group. 

Indeed, five years ago, a National Research Council report found that about 90% of the R&D budgets at technology firms went toward product development, rather than to more forward-thinking research. That could be because many companies have come under increasing pressure to manage costs and boost earnings for shareholders. The council also pointed out that the industry has shifted to churning out products with lower profit margins, so as a result companies don't have the kinds of profit they once did to plow back into research. 

But some companies are bucking the trend. IBM still does "tons of basic, exploratory research," says spokesman Tim Blair, such as its recently reported efforts to develop carbon nanotubes as a possible replacement for silicon chips or other silicon-powered devices. 

Chip maker Intel Corp. -- while still linking its research efforts very tightly to product-development teams -- has announced several advances in chip making involving super-small transistors. Eventually, they could be used in inexpensive computers that deliver the same amount of computing power as much bigger mainframe machines that cost millions of dollars. 

Microsoft is focused also on developing way-out products, including some neat gizmos for consumers. It might seem surprising, since the company has long had a reputation for skillfully marketing others' ideas -- and not coming up with innovative ideas itself. Indeed, when he first joined the company in 1991, Senior Vice President Rick Rashid, who now oversees the research group, notes that "most people thought Microsoft Research was an oxymoron." 

Times have changed. These days, hundreds of geeky Ph.D.s as well as psychologists, anthropologists and sociologists troll the hallways of the research group's home. Researchers work in a hands-off, university-like atmosphere. The goal is publishing intellectual research papers and getting them discussed at industry conferences -- not shipping products out the door, Mr. Rashid says. 

Research teams often present their ideas to Microsoft engineers who are developing specific products, and researchers occasionally do temporary stints working inside product groups. Microsoft researcher Jerome Lengyel, for instance, parlayed his edgy work in computer graphics into a temporary assignment with the team building Microsoft's Xbox video-game console. 

But products don't drive research, Mr. Rashid insists. What's more, "we don't have budgets for projects," he says, since fixed costs can place limits on how well people work together and share resources. Instead, researchers often just work on what interests them, whether the subject is 3-D movie graphics or complicated computer-database configurations. Researchers are Microsoft employees and subject to regular employee reviews, not questions about tenure. They are in many ways unfettered in their work; Microsoft doesn't edit or even review papers before they're sent to conferences, for instance. 

Ken Hinckley, who joined Microsoft four years ago, had an interest in what he calls "ubiquitous sensors." That's the idea that electronic sensors, which can detect things like touch and proximity, could be used more widely in consumer electronics. So he plunged in. Now, he likes to show off a prototype handheld organizer (a PocketPC machine made by Casio Computer Co.) that he's doctored up with various sensors, including some attached to the machine with white and blue tape. "I did most of the soldering myself," he says proudly. 

His prototype, outfitted with "tilt" and "touch" sensors, can automatically sense when someone is picking it up. That means the device could be programmed to turn itself on when it receives those signals. And when Mr. Hinckley picks up the machine and tilts it away from himself, the text on the screen begins to scroll. That enables him to read a document or e-mail without ever using a stylus. 

Another possibility: Using the sensors to generate commands for voice recording. In other words, the machine could recognize when a user is picking up the machine and putting it to his or her ear, ready to talk into it. A handheld organizer or a cell phone could be programmed to automatically turn on its recording mechanism at this time. That would allow people driving cars, for instance, to talk on their phones without having to punch buttons, and possibly to pay more attention to the road. 

The day before a recent demonstration of his souped-up organizer, Mr. Hinckley met with the Microsoft team in charge of making software for PocketPC devices to see if they'd be interested in using some of his technology. Their reaction? "It's still in the research stage, but it looks promising," reports Mr. Hinckley, who came straight to Microsoft after receiving his Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Virginia. 

Mr. Colburn, of poker-game fame, has also dabbled in other graphics work that could find its way into computer games. At the San Jose conference, sponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery, Mr. Colburn's computer display of "real-time fur" drew plenty of attention from visiting schoolchildren. The technique is simply a way to draw realistic-looking fur on things like animals and even fuzzy dice. It's "eye candy for games," Mr. Colburn says. 

Other researchers are working on projects that could help disabled people. Steven Shafer leads the "Easy Living" team, which is developing systems using wireless technology and video cameras that allow people to log onto a computer simply by sitting in front of a keyboard. In one of his team's labs, which has been decorated to look like a living room in a home, test subjects plop down on a tan leather couch and are suddenly greeted by a computer-generated voice: "Hello, Person 140," it says. Then, sensing that Person 140 is sitting in front of a computer keyboard and might want to log on, the image of a Windows computer screen appears like a slide projected onto the living-room wall. When the person gets up, the screen goes away. 

Of course, not all the work in Microsoft Research is that sexy. Cognitive psychologist Mary Czerwinski spends many of her days in a test lab behind a one-way mirror, watching groups of people pound away at their keyboard and respond to various digital interruptions, like e-mail and pop-up instant messages. Ms. Czerwinski is part of a team trying to figure out how and when to deliver notification services, which could include information about everything from auction bids on eBay Inc. to changes in travel plans. Such notifications are a big part of Microsoft's new Internet strategy. 

Already, some of that research has been incorporated into Microsoft's Outlook Mobile Manager product. That software helps figure out which e-mail messages are important enough to send to people when they're on the go, and how to send them, such as through their cell phones or pagers. 

Overall, pioneering work done in labs such as Microsoft's and IBM's is becoming more important as newer Internet companies fail; most of them didn't have funds for basic research, and simply relied on using their once-highflying stocks as currency to buy companies with new technology they needed. Basic research requires a big investment and a long-term view, says Mr. Rashid, who came to Microsoft after working as a professor at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh. 

"We've decided it's important for us," he says. "We think that's what's going to drive the long-term future." 

--- 

Ms. Buckman is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's San Francisco bureau. 

--- 

Journal Link: What products and developments do you think will be key to Microsoft's future? Join a discussion in the online Journal at WSJ.com/JournalLinks 

Document j000000020010711dx6p00er3


More Like This

 Article 191 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANOWIRED TO FERRET OUT EXPLOSIVES 

By Arlene Weintraub Edited by Otis Port 
221 words 
25 June 2001
Business Week 
100 
Number 3738 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Every hour, a land mine kills or maims as many as three people. Tens of millions of these deadly devices are scattered across 70 countries. 

Chemists at the University of California at San Diego believe they may have a cost-effective solution for ferreting out land mines and other bombs. By encasing a silicon-based polymer in conductive molecules, they've developed a nanowire that can detect very faint traces of explosives in air or under water. When the polymeric wires--each only 1/2,000th the diameter of a human hair--are sprayed on filter paper, they normally glow under an ultraviolet light. But the glow gets switched off by even trace amounts of an explosive--on someone's hand, for example (top), or coming from hidden explosives. So a surface coated with the substance, combined with a portable UV lamp, would create a small bomb detector that can find sea mines and booby traps along beaches, or spot guns in airline baggage or at border checkpoints. A system based on this technology should be less costly to make than existing approaches, says biochemistry professor William C. Trogler, who assisted with the research. 

Photograph: A DARK SHADOW WARNS OF TNT PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY HONGLAE SOHN/UCSD 


Document bw00000020010710dx6p002c7


More Like This

 Article 192 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

STRONGER THAN STEEL, THINNER THAN A HAIR 

By Michael Arndt Edited by Otis Port 
271 words 
25 June 2001
Business Week 
100 
Number 3738 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Few materials conjure up an image of strength better than steel. But peering into his electron microscope at Northwestern University, Laurence D. Marks can view tiny tubes that are twice as strong as steel, yet 1,000 times thinner than a human hair. Marks, director of the university's Center for Transportation Nanotechnology, led a team that scored a first by imaging and analyzing a new class of nanostructures made of hexagons of boron and nitrogen atoms. 

Marks foresees the boron-nitride nanostructures finding a home in the aerospace industry. The molecules are similar to their better-known cousins, carbon nanotubes. Both have walls only one atom thick. And because the new nanostructures are tough, light, and flexible--just like the carbon variety--they could be used to coat gears in aircraft or rocket engines, for instance. But here's the difference: When a carbon nanostructure oxidizes, it produces carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide--not useful, in engineering terms, and perhaps even harmful. When boron nitride oxidizes, on the other hand, the molecules form boric acid, which is an excellent solid lubricant. ``If applications can be found, taking it commercial would be easy,'' Marks says. 

The boron nitride work is the first big breakthrough at Marks's federally funded center, which opened in November. Next, he hopes to work on nanostructures composed of molybdenum disulfide. The compound is an even better solid lubricant, so Marks expects that it could be especially handy in space--keeping antennas and other movable parts on satellites from freezing. 

Document bw00000020010710dx6p002c8


More Like This

 Article 193 *******************    



Science & Technology: NANOTECHNOLOGY

WHAT HE DID ON HIS SUMMER VACATION A teenage wizard is shaking up micro-manufacturing 

By Otis Port in New York 
1,015 words 
16 July 2001
BusinessWeek 
66 
Number 3741 
English
(Copyright 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Give physicists a sandbox, and they can build a career in it. Indeed, many physicists see a sandbox as a sort of universe in miniature. Probing the forces in moving sand, called granular flows, has recently revealed new insights into landslides, earthquakes, and the evolution of the cosmos--and is even helping to predict Wall Street's gyrations. 

But when Alexander D. Wissner-Gross boned up on sandbox physics in 1998, at the tender age of 16, his imagination took off in the opposite direction. Instead of contemplating giant events, he thought about the world of the unimaginably small--and of the emerging field called nanotechnology. The goal here is to build everything from microchips and drugs to household appliances, molecule by molecule, or even atom by atom. But there's a hurdle nobody has managed to surmount: the lack of processes that can use individual atoms and molecules as building blocks and quickly assemble them into products. Coaxing nanobits to self-assemble chemically is one promising approach. Wissner-Gross thought sand could offer another solution. 

Shake a box of sand rapidly and tiny waves ripple across the surface. To Wissner-Gross, the waves had an appearance similar to moving fingers--and that gave him an idea. He proposed replacing the sand with carbon buckyballs, soccer-ball-shaped molecules just one nanometer (a billionth of a meter) in diameter. In his vision, infinitesimal nanowaves would carry molecules or atoms by the billions and deposit them at selected locations. In particular, nanofinger factories might quickly patch together carbon nanotubes--an elongated cousin of buckyballs--into microscopic computer circuits. Such nanochips could lead to pinhead-size computers packing as much punch as all of today's supercomputers combined. INQUISITIVE CAMPER. Nanotech researchers soon snapped to attention. ``Alex' idea is a classic example of bringing fresh thinking to a phenomenon,'' says David J.K. Goldhaber-Gordon, a physicist at Harvard University. Paul S. Weiss, a chemist who heads Pennsylvania State University's Center for Molecular Nanofabrication & Devices, terms the concept ``incredibly bright and creative.'' 

Wissner-Gross hatched his nanofingers scheme at Mitre Corp.'s elite summer camp for budding scientists. Each year, the Pentagon-funded think tank hires a dozen or more top-performing students to probe the frontiers of nanotechnology, electronics, and other high-tech areas. 

Wissner-Gross clearly fit the bill. In the summer of 1998, he had just finished his junior year at Great Neck South High School on Long Island, where he was a legendary whiz kid. In 1997, he ranked No. 4 in the USA Computer Olympiad for student programmers. The next year, he came in first, and also won the USA Math Talent Search competition, which he won again in 1999. A skilled fencer and singer, he performed with the New York City Opera for its 1992 and '93 seasons. Now at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he's working on a triple major in electrical engineering, physics, and math, plus a minor in biology--and making straight A's. 

The nano sandbox idea came after Wissner-Gross joined Mitre's Nanosystems Group and discovered the woeful state of atomic assembly. Today's best approach is a painstaking procedure involving so-called scanning-probe microscopes (SPMs). These complex devices wield ultrafine needles so sharp that they can trace the contours of atoms, then project an eerie, computer-generated landscape. But the capabilities of SPMs aren't confined to viewing atoms--using them to build things is also possible. In 1990, IBM researchers demonstrated the potential, lining up 35 xenon atoms to spell out the company name. That took 22 hours. Since then, nanotechnologists have designed many minuscule motors, gears, and other components. But the time and money required for even the simplest task still falls far short of commercial viability. 

When he arrived at Mitre, Wissner-Gross was already familiar with some of the math behind sandbox physics. Digging deeper, he discovered almost no attention had been paid to how much force existed in the sand fingers--or whether it could be tapped. ``So I spent the summer figuring out if they could be used for manipulation,'' he recalls. PATENTED. Wissner-Gross developed computer simulations showing that the undulating micro dunes are shaped by energy waves that sweep back and forth coherently--and that ``this force could be harnessed to do useful work.'' The research earned him the 10th spot in the 1999 Intel Science Talent Search, in addition to five awards at the 1999 International Science & Engineering Fair, which was also sponsored by Intel Corp. Mitre has been so impressed with Wissner-Gross's work that it filed for--and was awarded--a patent in his name. 

For confirmation of the student's simulations, Mitre Nanosystems chief James C. Ellenbogen tapped Harvard's Goldhaber-Gordon, a Mitre associate since he went to summer camp in 1989. The setup he built last year is designed to study progressively smaller grains made of plastic, gold, or glass. Shrinking the grain size in steps is essential because things get increasingly sticky as you head down the size scale. Tinier particles tend to clump together more tenaciously--which may necessitate lubricating the balls with a Teflonlike coating. Either way, after nearly two years of testing, Goldhaber-Gordon says he's optimistic that a nanofingers system should be ready to fabricate chips within four years. 

First, though, Wissner-Gross must perfect a control system that can arrange nanotubes in precise patterns to form transistors and connecting wires. He hopes this can be done by varying the frequency, direction, and strength of the shaking action. ``I'm running several simulations at the moment,'' he reports, ``using complex motions to see what kinds of things the fingers can make.'' If it all comes together, nanofingers should write Wissner-Gross's name large in history books. 

Photograph: BRIGHT IDEA: WISSNER-GROSS, NOW 18, HAD HIS BRAINSTORM THREE YEARS AGO PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM REDEL 


Document bw00000020010712dx7g0008h


More Like This

 Article 194 *******************    



On the Cover 

The Next Small Thing A big idea from the realm of the intensely tiny: Nanotechnology could mean denser hard drives, smaller chips, better medicine. 

BY Elizabeth Corcoran 
2,791 words 
23 July 2001
Forbes 
096 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

Scientists are re-creating our world in the realm of the intensely tiny. The potential payoff: denser hard drives, smaller chips, better medicine. 

Science is venturing into a new borderland, one as mysterious as the deepest oceans and as foreign as intergalactic space. It is the realm of the tiny, where things are measured in an unimaginably small unit called a nanometer, a distance one-hundred-thousandth the width of human hair. In this place the distinctions we learned in high school between "squishy" biology and "hard" physics melt away. In nanotechnology everything is simply atoms. The scientist-explorers in this space are learning how to move those atoms and coax some to work with others, all in an attempt to change the very nature of matter itself. 

Function follows form: Change the molecular structure of the materials used to make computer chips, for instance, and electronics could become as cheap and plentiful as bar codes on packaging. Lightweight vests enmeshed with sensors could measure a person's vital signs. Analysis of a patient's DNA could be done so quickly and precisely that designer drugs could be fabricated on the fly. A computer the size of your library card could store everything you ever saw or said. 

In this fourth annual spotlight on innovators, FORBES has turned to the scientists laying the groundwork for this custom-made future. Nanotechnology is still in its early days. Our six pioneers are kindred spirits to those who produced crude solid-state electronics after the invention of the transistor or who roughed out the Internet in the early 1970s. "We're working out the rules of biology in a realm where nature hasn't had the opportunity to work," says Angela Belcher, a professor with the University of Texas. 

Much of the work is aimed at building future electronic systems, whose manufacturing limits are becoming clear. Using established technology, such as lithography, the best that chip manufacturers can currently do is make circuit elements with dimensions measuring 130 nanometers across. The prospect of building electronic systems that could be 1,000 times denser and significantly cheaper, bit for bit, is alluring. Redirecting chipmaking techniques for biology could dramatically improve how doctors diagnose and treat the ill. 

None of this is easy, in no small part because scientists will be freely trespassing on one another's turf. To make such tiny electronic circuits, physicists are trying to mimic nature by finding ways to get inanimate materials to "self-assemble," in a fashion analogous to the way living things grow. 

There are risks. Some nanotechnology tricks being investigated now will never be commercially feasible, and even the ones that will be could also attract the same sorts of hucksters that flocked to the Internet. Pundits even debate the possible unintended consequences of nanosystems, including whether nanomachines could spiral out of control. 

The scientists profiled below hail from some of the world's top research organizations within both large companies and renowned universities. Their entrepreneurial spirit has pushed some to branch out to startups that aim to commercialize their work. The future will indeed be amazing. Watch these scientists make it so. 

Gerd Binnig, a fellow at IBM, remembers when other scientists would visit his laboratory in Zurich and angrily denounce him and colleague Heinrich Rohrer, as cheaters. "They just didn't believe us," he recalls. In 1981 Binnig and Rohrer built what they called a "scanning tunneling microscope." Painting snapshots of the surface of inorganic material, such as metal or semiconductors, the STM gave scientists their first visa to the nanoworld. 

By bringing a metal probe within two atoms of a sample material, Binnig and Rohrer showed that the material's surface was as bumpy as the Rocky Mountains instead of smooth and uniform, as most previous calculations had assumed. Even Binnig could hardly believe their results. "I thought matter was simpler. I was impressed by its beauty." 

As soon as scientists could see individual atoms, they wanted to start playing with them. (The work also won Binnig and Rohrer a share of a Nobel Prize in 1986.) Fast-forward to the present: Rohrer, 68, is retired, but Binnig, 54, is breaking new nanoground--literally--with his "millipede" storage system that can record more than 400 gigabits of data over a square inch. That's a 50-fold step up from IBM's densest commercial drive, a 70-millimeter platter that packs 26 gigabits. 

Along with a team of IBM colleagues in Zurich, Binnig created a nanoscopic brush with 1,024 tiny tips, each attached to its own cantilever. As the cantilevers move up and down, they make dents in a plexiglass-like polymer; picture an inverted version of the bumps on a roll of music for a player piano designed to charm an amoeba. The tips can also "read" the dents back, at rates of up to 100 megabits per second, by brushing back over them. To start over again, heat the polymer and the dents disappear as the molecules realign themselves. "Our intention was to demonstrate that nanotechnology isn't that far out," declares Binnig. 

It will take IBM two to three years to commercialize the millipede storage system, Binnig expects. That the millipede works at all surprised even Binnig, who says he procrastinated building the device because he thought it wouldn't work. In the nanorealm "your intuition fools you," Binnig says. "You might think it would not work--but it does." 

At the heart of Binnig's work are mechanical principles. Others are turning toward nature for insights into how to manipulate matter. Nature builds nanostructures all the time. But rather than painstakingly trying to assemble every feature, biological systems essentially are programmed with rules that guide how materials should build themselves. 

Chemists work much the same way, says George M. Whitesides, 62, who joined Harvard University as a tenured chemist in 1982. "Chemists have always been in the business of taking atoms and putting them together with other atoms with precisely defined connections," he says. 

That kind of work used to be aimed at concocting new drugs. Now it's aimed at the microchip business. By the 1980s microelectronics engineers were beginning to worry that packing ever more transistors onto computer chips was going to get impossibly expensive. Whitesides, who had long served as a consultant to the Department of Defense, had a reputation for doing unconventional chemistry by exploring interactions between unlikely pairings of materials. Why not, he asked, put chemistry to work to make novel electronic circuits? 

That question has led Whitesides to the forefront of one of the most intriguing nano-explorations: figuring out how to coax materials to "self-assemble," or put themselves together in precise ways. 

Trying to build nanoscale electronics with even the most sophisticated tools from the chip business is exquisitely hard--like doing a tiny line drawing with an infant's extra-thick crayons. By contrast, living cells are full of machinery that assemble nanoscale structures all the time. 

Inspired by the complex structure of proteins, Whitesides thinks he can build a three-dimensional circuit that assembles itself. He takes tiny polymer blocks and affixes electronic devices like transistors on a number of faces. His team adds solder dots on other faces, then strings the blocks together like beads on a fine wire. 

The "magic" is in the solder dots, which are attracted to one another, much the way two drops of water on a windshield merge into one. The die sides with, say, two solder dots are attracted to others with two solder dots; those with three are attracted to other groups of three. 

Suspend the necklaces of blocks in water and the solder dots come together, forming connections and, ultimately, a three-dimensional circuit. "If we do the design right, this thing should fold together just one way," Whitesides says. 

Making, say, 500 components come together is daunting, he adds. "But we're not steering blind. Nature does it. We know that 500 amino acids can fold to make just one protein." 

Angela Belcher, 34, of the University of Texas, also believes that proteins are the keys to unlocking new semiconductor materials. Abalone, she says, make their shells by creating a fine brick-like wall of nanosize tiles of two types of chalk, something that makes them 3,000 times tougher than the chalk found in rock. "They're perfect nanostructures, and that's related to why they're so tough," she says. Proteins signal when the abalone should grow a tile. As Belcher was finishing her graduate degree, she made a conceptual leap: Why not use proteins to direct the nanostructure of semiconductors? "People didn't think about putting these things together," Belcher says. "Most just thought, "This will never work.'" 

Structure matters. For decades, silicon engineers have worked hard to make silicon crystals grow as perfectly as possible so that electrons will whiz through, producing a faster chip. Belcher wants to control far more aspects of crystal growth. She did not know which proteins might trigger semiconductor growth. So she turned to a time-tested approach from the pharmaceutical industry: Throw the kitchen sink at 'em. 

She started with a billion viruses, each carrying a different genetically modified protein. She mixed them in solution with a semiconductor, then checked to see whether some proteins would stick to the semiconductor. The technique worked. She washed away the irrelevant ones, then repeated the process. By running through the routine a half dozen times, Belcher began to believe that she could control how semiconductor crystals grow. 

Now, two years later, Belcher and her team are collecting a toolbox of proteins that alter crystal growth in various ways. "It took the abalone millions of years to evolve," Belcher says, to get the right proteins. "It takes about three weeks on the bench top." 

Working through the periodic table, Belcher's university team has tested proteins that stick to about 20 different inorganic materials. This spring Belcher and Evelyn Hu of the University of California, Santa Barbara, cofounded a company, Semzyme, to systematically develop a protein toolkit. "Right now, we're trying to learn the rules," she says. 

Harold Craighead, 48, recently appointed dean of engineering at Cornell University, is trying hard to break the rules--at least, the traditional rules that separate fields like physics and biology. At Cornell's Nanobiotechnology Center physicists, engineers, biologists and chemists collaborate, crushing the time-honored academic distinctions separating them. He tries to do the same in his own work as a scientist, using a physicist's collection of tricks to understand and work with biological molecules. He pokes, prods and stretches DNA molecules to understand the physics that govern them. One result: a technique for dramatically speeding up the job of separating large fragments of DNA, a likely boon for diagnosing diseases. 

To study the properties of DNA molecules, Craighead and his associates employ lithographic equipment like that used by the chip industry to make tiny obstacle courses for molecules. On a piece of silicon, they etch tiny channels with bumps 35 to 90 nanometers high. They then put a drop of solution containing DNA fragments at one end of the channel and turn on an electric field: weirdly enough, the bigger the fragments, the faster they move over the bumps. It takes only a few minutes for Craighead's group to separate large DNA fragments from a sample. Traditional means could take many hours for the same material. 

Marrying molecular biology and lithography is already producing a wealth of other novel diagnostic techniques. One of Craighead's favorites: a tool that could detect whether food is spoiled. It's the micron equivalent of a dipstick, a tiny cantilever with antibodies on the tip. The antibodies attach to certain bacteria, causing the cantilevers to vibrate. Electronic systems sense the vibrations and set off an alert. With such nanoscopic feelers, they can detect even a molecule of gas. 

"This is no more sophisticated than the electronics in a singing birthday card," Craighead says. Such systems could easily be built into every refrigerator. 

R. Stanley Williams, 49, and a fellow at Hewlett-Packard, just wants to build a better computer. "A computer still isn't smart and isn't easy to use," Williams says. "We want to make vastly more capable computers that are cheaper to build and that run on less power." 

The model Williams and his colleagues have in mind is, of course, the human brain, an instrument with trillions of neurons. Any one neuron is slower to act than a transistor on a Pentium chip, but collectively, the brain's neurons process far more information than the biggest array of Pentiums. 

To mimic the brain Williams needs switches and wires thousands of times smaller than those in the best silicon devices and a radically different design for the overall computer. For switches Williams and his HP colleagues, along with James Heath at the University of California, Los Angeles, are turning to molecules. Carbon nanotubes are promising candidates for wires. They are atomically perfect structures, 1 to 2 nanometers wide, and as much as a million times as long. Some are metallic and have proven to be the best conductors yet discovered, others are semiconductors. 

For their system Williams and his colleagues construct an electronic sandwich: a layer of wires, then a layer of rotaxane molecules that act like switches, topped with another layer of wires that run perpendicular to the first layer. The molecules become devices at the points where the wires cross. 

Some of the molecular switches may not work--something that would be a devastating problem for conventional electronic circuits. But the scientists believe they can livewith defective components by programming their way around them, a trick that has been used in some kinds of silicon chips and in experimental computers. 

That's the future. For now Williams and his team are tackling such fundamental challenges as showing that their switches work and figuring out how to get data in and out of tiny molecular devices. 

At UCLA Heath is nearing the end of a two-year effort to build a molecular 16-bit memory unit. "By the end of summer we'd like to demonstrate, on a nanometer scale, logic devices that are like the chips you could buy in 1970," Williams says. "Then we'd like to boost performance eight times every 18 months," he adds, in order to achieve a 16-kilobit memory by 2005. If he is successful, he reckons that in ten years his devices will rival the power of the best available conventional silicon chips. Yet because his chips will be built from organic molecules, manufacturing them might be more like rolling out a sheet of photographic film than etching squares of silicon, Williams says. 

Mark Reed, 46, now chairman of Yale University's electrical engineering department, is convinced that some form of electronics will ultimately be built from self-assembling components. In the beakers in his laboratory he is exploring just what types of molecules can be coaxed to work together to conduct current. 

In June Reed published a paper describing how he made memory devices by sandwiching carbon-based molecules between two dots of gold measuring less than 50 nanometers across. Apply a voltage to the device and the molecules rearrange themselves to conduct, essentially turning on. Other pulses can nudge the molecules to rearrange themselves into a nonconducting state, turning off much as a random access memory chip does. Still other voltage pulses can read whether the molecules are off or on. 

"Our next step is to get our hands on the knobs of the controls," says Reed, by understanding the physics behind how electrons move through such materials. "Molecular devices could be used to replace memory. Will they be as good as silicon? Probably not. Will they be cheaper? Yeah." 

Imagine, he says, memory so cheap that people throw away electronics the way they do packaging. When electronics are that cheap, the way we use them changes fundamentally. Electronics, for instance, could replace bar codes. Shoppers would still pick groceries off the shelf, but rather than waiting in a checkout line, they would wheel their loaded carts through a portal like a metal detector. The electronics would signal how much should be deducted from the shopper's bank account. 

Nice--yet Reed contends that the most intriguing applications have yet to be invented. "If you had extrapolated from 1950s technology, we'd all have nuclear-powered toasters instead of PCs on our desks." 

Document fb00000020010709dx7n00010


More Like This

 Article 195 *******************    



Ready-to-Wear Watchdogs --- `Smart' Garments Keep Track Of Vital Signs, Hide Odor; Skirt to Washer: `Too Hot!' 

By Susan Warren 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
1,030 words 
10 August 2001
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NOVELIST JOHN JUREK published a mystery, "KaeLF Skin," last fall featuring "smart fabric" underwear that can pleasure, addict, injure and even kill the wearer. 

As it happens, the fiction isn't all that far from the truth. 

The first generation of garments that couple nanotechnology -- the science of making electronics on the tiniest of atomic scales -- with high-tech fabrics to create "smart clothing" is beginning to roll out. 

Motorola Inc. is working on developing clothing that can "talk" to washing machines, giving instructions on how the garments should be washed. Chemicals giant DuPont Co. and textiles concern Burlington Industries Inc. also see potential for a huge new market in clothing that looks like the same old thing but functions more like an appliance. 

On the horizon: Expanding the waistline of your pants with a push of a button. Adjusting the color of a sweater from blue to green to match a favorite skirt. Tracking a wandering child through a global-positioning system woven into his jacket collar. Clothing a baby in sleepwear that sounds an alarm if breathing stops. 

Last year, Burlington, of Greensboro, N.C., paid just under $10 million for a 51% stake in Nano-Tex Inc., a company using nanotechnology to engineer fabric that resists wrinkles and stays drier. 

At Nano-Tex's laboratories outside San Francisco, researchers play basketball every day in the same socks, engineered with molecular-scaled sponges that absorb the rancid hydrocarbons responsible for body odor. The sponges are designed to release the smelly stuff only when they meet up with detergent in the washing machine. With this new fabric, "you could wear the same gym suit three or four times" without offending other players, says David Soane, chief scientific officer. 

At DuPont, Wayne Marsh, a manager in the company's central research department, has been guiding efforts to engineer new fibers that can function as conductive "wires," as well as react to signals from electricity, heat or pressure. DuPont scientists have tinkered with the traditional circular shape of fibers to make them oval, square, or triangular. These shapes enable microscopic "wings" of different materials to be added to the core fiber, like blades of a propeller; the doctored material can then be made to contract or expand, loosening and tightening clothing, or making it warmer or cooler depending on what the wearer desires. 

These fibers, already appearing in some new high-performance fabrics, will ultimately combine with electronic devices to enhance fashion as well as function. For instance, conductive, winged fibers could change the reflective quality of specially dyed fiber/cloth so that it changes color on command from an electric signal. 

"The clothes that we wear might not look like the uniforms on the bridge of the Starship Enterprise, but they will be able to do the same things," DuPont product manager Stacey Burr says. 

The Wilmington, Del., company hopes such research will to renew its fibers businesses. DuPont's specialty-fibers business constituted $3.5 billion of the company's $28 billion of sales in 2000, while its slow-growing polyester and nylon businesses brought in another $7 billion. The now-tiny area of smart fabrics, or "textronics" as DuPont calls it, is considered an ideal opportunity for leveraging the company's knowledge in chemistry, textiles and electronics. 

Scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are approaching smart clothing from the electronics side, trying to find ways to meld devices like phones and computers into garments. They have attracted several corporate sponsors to help fund their research, including Philips NV of the Netherlands, which last year collaborated with Levi Strauss & Co. to introduce a jacket with a built-in cellphone and MP3 player. Though briefly marketed, the system proved too cumbersome, observers say. 

Last month, MIT researcher Steven Schwartz traveled to Russia to test a "smart" space suit outfitted with wearable computers. The suit, built in collaboration with Boeing Co., is designed to monitor the astronaut's condition while providing information and feedback during space walks outside the space station. Mr. Schwartz's pet project is the "smart vest" -- an undergarment made with flexible conductive fibers that could be used as a kind of motherboard for plugging in wearable devices. 

In New York, technology start-up Sensatex Inc. hopes to roll out an athletic T- shirt that will monitor heart rate, track body temperature and respiration and count how many calories the wearer is burning. It could even warn of a potential heart attack or heat prostration. Such a shirt might have prevented the recent death from heatstroke of football player Korey Stringer, the company says. 

Sensatex moved into the "smart shirt" business after buying an exclusive license to technology developed at Georgia Institute of Technology for the military to monitor battlefield soldiers. 

The company's first smart-shirt prototype is a T-shirt-like garment that looks and feels like a soft, ribbed-cotton knit. But the cotton and spandex cloth is interwoven with conductive fibers that can receive and transmit data from embedded sensors to a special receiver the size of a credit card. The "transceiver," worn at the waist, stores the information and can transmit it for playback to a cellphone, home personal computer or a wrist-mounted monitor. 

Worn by an elderly person, the shirt could monitor vital signs or signal a dangerous fall. A GPS unit could locate a wandering Alzheimer's patient. Baby pajamas could be fashioned with a cellphone, so anxious parents could call home from the theater to listen to their infant's breathing, check his heart rate or even sing a lullaby. 

For now, though, Sensatex says it is focusing on the fitness arena. The company's chief executive, Jeffrey Wolf, says he is working with sports organizations to test the athletic T-shirt on professional players by the end of the year. Also in the works: a version that could be used for weight-loss or fitness training. The company expects the T-shirt to sell initially for around $200. 

Document j000000020010810dx8a0003i


More Like This

 Article 196 *******************    


Features/Retirement Guide 2001 

Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Retirement* ; *But Were Afraid To Ask; How long will you live? What will your investments return?; What will inflation be? We roll up our sleeves and dig ; into the stickiest financial questions. 

Christine Y. Chen; Reporter Associate Noshua Watson 
2,775 words 
13 August 2001
Fortune
109 
Vol. 144, Issue: 3 Special Investor's Issue 
English
(Copyright 2001) 

Those Internet retirement calculators sound like a great idea. Just enter a few data points, and voila: a fail-safe plan to ensure that you spend your golden years in comfort. In reality, though, these little snippets of Java script raise more "hows" and "whens" than they can possibly answer. That's because any really honest retirement planning will bring you face to face with some big, scary questions. 

For instance: When will you die? No, we're not being intentionally morbid. But without at least some iffy sense of your life span, it's impossible to know how long your retirement will last--which makes planning for it difficult, if not downright meaningless. After all, living to 150 sounds like a grand idea...unless you've only got enough savings to make it to 82. (No one wants to be a burden to their 120-year-old kids.) And your life expectancy is just the first in a slew of imponderables. 

Never known to shy away from a challenge, FORTUNE set out to answer the five most essential unanswerable questions regarding retirement. And we didn't just rely on actuarial tables and official data: We got our hands dirty, plowing through reams of research reports, studies, and statistics. We went to dozens of doctors, economists, and academics and begged them to tell us what we can expect. And we crunched the numbers to see what the past can tell us about the future. 

Inside, you'll find our snapshot of retirement in the years to come, complete with pointed, specific answers to even the most difficult queries. We've also filled the following pages with graphs, tables, and timelines to give you a better sense of what the future holds. There's no need to be afraid anymore; you'll be able to fill out those retirement calculators with confidence. Now all you have to do is save. 

REPORTER ASSOCIATE Noshua Watson 

[SIDEBAR] 

How long will you live? 

Gene therapy. Nanotechnology. Human growth hormone. Every day, it seems, we read about another biological breakthrough that just might extend our life span another couple of notches. Eileen Crimmins, professor of gerontology at the University of Southern California, says at some point we'll all be living to 100: "It's a basic biomedical revolution that has to occur." 

But don't start planning your Sweet 116 just yet--it's anyone's guess when we'll actually break the century mark. "If you're in your 20s, I would not be surprised at all if you live beyond 100 or even 120," says Robert Goldman, M.D., chairman of the 10,000-member American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine. But Robert N. Butler, M.D., president and CEO of the International Longevity Center, calls that "super-optimistic"; he says that even if cancer, heart disease, and stroke were cured tomorrow, life expectancy would increase by only a decade. 

Heck, why wait for medical science? The doctors we spoke with said that with enough exercise and vice restraint, Americans could extend the average life span to 85, from the current 77, within the next few decades. For a more personal estimate, check out the detailed Living to 100 Life Expectancy Calculator (sample question: "Do you drink green tea daily?") at www.livingto100.com. 

Aging by The Numbers 

Some researchers say that 50% of baby girls born today will reach age 100. 

The average life expectancy in 1900 was 49 years. 

In ten years midlife crises will start at age 64, according to a recent survey. 

The average American wants to die at age 91. Only 25% hope to make it to 100. 

The oldest known person ever, France's Jeanne Calment, died at age 122 in 1997. 

Results May Vary: If you're among the 40% of American adults who never exercise in their leisure time (ahem), you may wish to spend your nest egg earlier. 

In the Pipeline 

Heart disease 

5 to 10 years Drugs, in addition to lowering blood pressure and cholesterol levels, will be able to fix the walls of blood vessels themselves. 

10 to 20 years Artery blockages, in many cases, will be preventable. 

20 to 40 years Heart disease will no longer be the leading cause of death. 

Stroke 

[Within 5 years] Vitamin therapy will cut the risk of stroke. New drugs will prevent blood clotting. 

[5 to 10 years] New, less invasive surgical procedures to treat strokes will be in common use. 

[10 to 20 years] The most damaging effects of stroke will be reversible even up to 12 hours after the event. 

Cancer 

[Within 5 years] Many of the 300 different cancer treatments currently in development will be made available. 

[5 to 10 years] New medications will target specific cells to fight different forms of cancer. 

[10 to 20 years] The development of gene therapy will help cut the cancer death rate in half. 

[20 to 40 years] Vegetables will be specially bred to include concentrated cancer-preventing compounds. 

"HOW LONG WILL YOU LIVE?": DEL WEBB CORP.; CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION; AARP; ROCKEFELLER UNIVERSITY; MEMORIAL SLOAN- KETTERING 

[SIDEBAR] 

When will you retire? 

You know that fantasy you have about early retirement? The one where you give your boss the what-for and spend your 50s lying on a beach somewhere? Well, forget about it. (Or, rather, postpone it.) Despite all the talk of stock market-fueled cashouts, the median age of the work force has gone up 15% in the past 20 years. And experts say that the average retirement age could increase a half percent per year over the next few decades as baby-boomers gray, but stay in the work force. 

Now for the good news: You may not have to kowtow to higher-ups anymore. If the data is any indication, your boss will bend over backward to keep you happy. "The next ten years will be the decade of employees, rather than the decade of shareholders that we saw in the '90s," predicts Eric Lofgren, global director of benefits consulting at Watson Wyatt. Look for a whole slew of new office perks in coming years, including phased retirement (transitioning from full-time to part-time work while keeping benefits). Why? Tip your hat to demographics. Lofgren estimates that when the boomers finally do retire, we'll see a 1% annual decrease in the work force, meaning employees will be ever more valuable. The party will last for about ten years, when the so-called echo boom enters the workplace in full force. 

Setting The Clock Back 

The number of North Americans with at least $1 million in investable assets grew 2.4% last year, to 2.54 million. 

23% of baby-boomers believe that they are not likely to receive any Social Security benefits whatsoever. 

41% of adults under 30 say it isn't possible for most people to live the "American dream." 

46% of Americans think that $1 million is not enough to retire on. 

68% of people 65 and older say the song title that most accurately describes their feelings about retirement is "The Sounds of Silence." 

80% of baby-boomers expect to work in retirement. 

Results May Vary: The 19% of workers who haven't saved a penny for retirement can expect to spend their golden years working at the Golden Arches. 

DATA SOURCES FOR "WHEN WILL YOU RETIRE?": ZURICH SCUDDER INVESTMENTS; MERRILL LYNCH/CAP GEMINI ERNST & YOUNG; RASMUSSEN RESEARCH; DEL WEBB CORP.; EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE; AARP; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS. 

[SIDEBAR] 

What will your investments return? 

Has the stock market roller coaster left you with a bad case of whiplash? Well, on the bright side, that painful crick in your neck could serve as a sobering reminder that 20% returns don't last forever. Then again, maybe that's not the most helpful lesson when it comes to retirement planning. What you want, of course, is to have some idea of what your investments will earn in the coming years. 

To that end, we asked Chicago research and consulting firm Ibbotson Associates to predict the average annual return of the stock market for the next several decades. Their best guess: 9.37%. (True, that's below the 11% historical return of the S&P 500, says Chairman Roger Ibbotson, who contends that P/E ratios can't keep on growing as fast as they have.) 

That's not taking bonds into account, mind you. And if there's one lesson that emerges from historical data, it's that diversification is essential for any kind of steady return. Last year, for instance, long-term Treasuries had a total return of 21%, blunting those brutal tech losses. Indeed, a conservatively balanced portfolio--60% stocks, 40% bonds--would have gained 5% in 2000. But the real test? Even with the Depression and a World War, this diversified portfolio has returned an average of 10.3% over the past seven decades. 

Thoughts For Your Pennies 

Since the Social Security Administration started paying benefits in 1937, the equity markets have shown positive returns for 48 years and negative returns for 16 years. 

At least somebody made money last year. The combined wealth of "high net worth" individuals in North America jumped 9%, to $8.8 trillion. 

In the past year alone, the number of companies in the S&P 500 that pay dividends dropped by 20. 

After periods of very low stock valuations, the market has typically gone up nearly 16% per year during the following decade. 

Results May Vary: The 50% of 401(k) participants who have no allocation strategy live year to year. And maybe hand to mouth. 

Many Happy Returns Compounded annual return on investments, by decade The historical return for a balanced portfolio: 10.3% 

[A] S&P 500 [B] U.S. small-cap stocks [C] U.S. long-term govt. bonds [D] 30% S&P 500, 30% small-cap stocks, 40% long-term govt. bonds 

1930s* '40s '50s '60s '70s '80s '90s 

[A] -0.1% 9.2% 19.4% 7.8% 5.9% 17.6% 18.2% [B] 1.4% 20.7% 16.9% 15.5% 11.5% 15.8% 15.1% [C] 4.9% 3.2% -0.1% 1.5% 5.5% 12.6% 8.8% [D] 5.6% 10.8% 10.8% 7.8% 8.1% 15.7% 13.9% 

* This apparent impossibility--a portfolio outperforming all of its components--is due to market volatility and reapportionment. (Don't ask.) 

DATA SOURCES FOR "WHAT WILL YOUR INVESTMENTS RETURN?": IBBOTSON ASSOCIATES; S&P; LEUTHOLD GROUP; MERRILL LYNCH/CAP GEMINI ERNST & YOUNG. 

[SIDEBAR] 

What will inflation be? 

Even if you max out your 401(k) and invest wisely, your retirement savings are subject to forces beyond your control--namely inflation, which can wipe out thousands of retirement dollars every year. So to suss out what the likely damage to your own nest egg will be, we asked 27 of the nation's top economists to dust off their crystal balls and predict an annual inflation rate for the next several decades. Their consensus: a surprisingly low 2.7%. 

Yes, while it's conceivable that stagflation could come back along with that other eerie bell-bottomed incarnation, ABBA, it's highly unlikely. Thank Alan Greenspan and his fellow inflation hawks at the Fed, who have made controlling this scourge their highest priority. "The U.S. Federal Reserve has taken historical lessons to heart," says Brookings Institution economist William Dickens. "I don't think you'll ever see an episode like the 1970s again." 

How significant is the news? Judge for yourself. The table below, courtesy of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, looks at how long your savings would last under three different inflation scenarios: today's 3.6%, our predicted 2.7%, and--just for fun--the 13.5% that we saw in 1980. As you can see, even a drop of a few tenths of a percentage point can mean another year-plus of solvency. One more reason to be glad the malaise days are behind us. 

Cost of Living...Longer 

Grand Slam breakfast at the Market Center Blvd. Denny's in Dallas: Today: $2.99 In 2030: $6.47 

Senior discount ticket at the Q Cinema 9 in Omaha: Today: $5.00 In 2030: $10.83 

Efferdent Plus denture cleanser with FreshBurst Listerine (108 count): Today: $5.49 In 2030: $11.89 

Empty Nest-Egg Syndrome Winnebago Adventurer Model 35U: Today: $105,783 In 2030: $229,065 

15-day Elderhostel trip to "Bulgaria--Crossroads of the Balkans" (spring): Today: $2,745 In 2030: $5,944 

Results May Vary: We might have inflation licked, but medical costs won't flatline anytime soon. Your out-of-pocket personal health care expenses are expected to almost double in the next decade, and your prescription drug expenses could nearly triple. 

Empty Nest-Egg Syndrome Someone who retires with $100,000 withdraws the equivalent of $10,000 in 2001 dollars every year. Assuming a 10.3% return on investments, how long will his or her nest egg last? The answer depends on inflation. 

If inflation is Life span of nest egg is 

2.7% 17.9 years 3.6% 16.2 years 13.5% 9.3 years 

"WHAT WILL INFLATION BE?": IBBOTSON ASSOCIATES; CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES; EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

[SIDEBAR] 

What will your home be worth? 

Your house, they say, is your most dependable investment. Tell that to the folks living in Oceana, W.Va. Severe floods in early July wiped out entire neighborhoods in an area that wasn't particularly disaster prone. Home appreciation may have outpaced inflation by 4.3% annually over the past 20 years, but that's no comfort if your property (and its value) suddenly goes underwater. How can you predict those pesky acts of God? Lacking a direct line to heaven, we contacted the best available sources: climatologists, seismologists, and sundry other ologists. 

Still, smart real estate investing takes more than dodging floods and mudslides. A big factor, it seems, is figuring out where people want to live. And for that, a backward look may help. The chart below shows appreciation in housing prices since 1980. As you can see, New England nesters lead the pack, with Massachusetts' 364% gain topping all rivals. Looking forward, Calvin Beale, a demographer at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, predicts that the value of nonmetropolitan counties near prospering cities will surge. A top pick: Spencer County, near Louisville. "It's still a completely rural community," he says, "but it's in the right path." 

The Chance Card 

2001 It's been 500 years since Mount. Rainier experienced its last "lahar"--a massive mudslide--but officials say the next one could come any day now, covering the surrounding towns in muck. The good news: You won't have to worry about Bigfoot anymore. The bad news: Your log cabin in the Washington woods will be worth approximately nothing. 

2010 Retirees, having colonized most of South Florida, will take over the Panhandle as well. Install a Clapper and start referring to your Tallahassee condo as an "assisted living facility," and its value could skyrocket. 

2030 According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the likelihood that a 7.0 or greater quake could hit Southern California within 30 years is 85%. Add 20% in value to your new beachfront home in Arizona. 

2050 Within the next five decades, there will be a severe five- to ten-year drought in the west-central part of the country. Before the Dust Bowl returns to Oklahoma, call your Realtor. 

FORTUNE CHARTS/DATA SOURCE FOR "WHAT WILL YOUR HOME BE WORTH?": OFFICE OF FEDERAL HOUSING ENTERPRISE OVERSIGHT 

See also cover story of same issue 

COLOR PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: MATTHEW HRANEK FOUR COLOR PHOTOS: PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVIES & STARR COLOR PHOTO: WATCH, AARON FABER GALLERY/NYC COLOR CHART Keep Your Gold Watch! American work force participation rates by age and gender Men All 55- to 64-year-olds Women Men All 65 and older Women COLOR CHART House Of The Rising Sums Percent increase in housing prices, by state and census division, since 1980 PACIFIC MOUNTAIN W.N. CENTRAL W.S. CENTRAL E.S. CENTRAL E.N. CENTRAL SOUTH ATLANTIC MID-ATLANTIC NEW ENGLAND ELEVEN COLOR ILLUSTRATIONS 


Document fortu00020010725dx8d0000i


More Like This

 Article 197 *******************    



What's News 
World-Wide 

World-Wide 

712 words 
31 August 2001
The Wall Street Journal 
A1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

MILOSEVIC WILL BE INDICTED for genocide on Oct. 1, U.N. prosecutors said. 

The charge is to be filed over the ousted Serb strongman's actions in Bosnia, bloodiest of the Balkan wars he unleashed as Yugoslavia broke up in the 1990s. The indictment also will expand from the current Kosovo charges to include Croatia war crimes. At a hearing at which the announcement was made, Milosevic complained about his jail treatment at The Hague. 

NATO said it has collected one-third of the weapons it expects Albanian rebels to turn in, and urged Macedonia to keep political promises made in a peace deal. 

--- 

Israel withdrew from Beit Jalla in a U.S.-brokered deal in which Arafat pledged to end Palestinian shooting at a Jewish area of Jerusalem. Hopes that peace efforts might expand dimmed amid heavy Hebron fighting that left three Palestinians dead. An Israeli was killed at a cafe he helped a Palestinian friend open. 

Arab activists broke up a news conference by Jewish groups on the eve of today's U.N. conference on racism. The U.S., charging anti-Israel bias, is sending only a low-level delegation to the South Africa session. 

--- 

Loral and the Bush administration are near a deal to end a four-year inquiry on the company's alleged passing of missile technology to China. Loral would pay penalties and tighten safeguards in return for clearance to ship satellites to China. 

--- 

Florida's gay-adoption ban was upheld by a federal judge who accepted state arguments that homosexual households are less stable than those of married couples. Florida's ban is considered the nation's toughest. Appeals may reach the Supreme Court. 

--- 

A California manhunt ended as police captured Ukrainian immigrant Nikolay Soltys in his mother's backyard near Sacramento. Soltys is wanted for last week's slayings of his wife, his son and four relatives. 

--- 

A farm-aid battle looms as Bush returned from vacation. He traded promises of more funding to win farm-state votes for tax cuts, but shrinking budget figures have the White House backtracking. 

--- 

The stem-cell debate is likely to consume Congress when it returns to work next week. But when the dust settles, the restrictions Bush announced on Aug. 9 probably will be left standing. 

--- 

The Army plans to shift some of its store of weapons to Asia from Europe, and the secretary said some troops may follow. Details remain sketchy, but the effort follows Rumsfeld pronouncements on likely future threats. 

Global arms spending rose 8% to $798 billion in 2000 from 1999, with poor nations accounting for most of the increase, the top U.N. disarmament official said. His report named the U.S. as the biggest seller by far. 

--- 

U.S. warplanes bombed an Iraqi radar site at Basra's airport, which also serves civilian flights. No injuries were reported. The Pentagon decided the radar was far enough from civilian facilities to risk a raid. 

--- 

An Iranian film director was arrested for what a relative said was Tahmineh Milani's stand on clerical oppression of women. Separately, riots killed two in Sabzevar after the town failed to win provincial-capital status. 

--- 

East Timorese voted in elections marking a big step toward independence after centuries of Portuguese or Indonesian control, casting ballots for a constitutional assembly. Turnout was over 90%. 

--- 

Government supervision should increase over all human medical research, public or private, a presidential advisory panel is recommending. It faulted current protections for human test subjects. 

--- 

Medicaid is paying more than it should for big-name prescription drugs, federal investigators say. The HHS inspector general says pharmacy discounts aren't being passed on to the program in full. 

--- 

Bell Labs scientists found a way to make carbon-60 molecules, or buckyballs, superconductive at minus 249 degrees, much less cold than required by other techniques. The research is detailed in the journal Science. 

--- 

A Brazil TV tycoon was held hostage briefly by an alleged cop killer the executive earlier had paid $200,000 to release his kidnapped daughter. Silvio Santos is owner of Brazil's No. 2 network. 

--- 

Died: Govan Mbeki, 91, ally of Mandela in the antiapartheid struggle and father of South Africa's president, in Port Elizabeth. 

Document j000000020010831dx8v00026


More Like This

 Article 198 *******************    



Departments 

Digital Rules 

Rich Karlgaard 
814 words 
17 September 2001
Forbes Magazine 
51 
Volume 168; Issue 07 
English
(c) 2001 Forbes Inc.

STEALTH VISIONARY 

Nine years ago the wounded giant IBM rolled over and very nearly aspirated its own vomit. What a collapse that was! Five years earlier IBM had been the planet's heavyweight champ of market cap. It had 400,000 spit-shined employees. Those were gravy days for men's haberdasheries around Westchester County, N.Y., vending all those millions of blue suits, white shirts and regimental ties. Speaking of clothes, the U.S. Department of Justice crept all over IBM like a cheap pair of boxers. In this case, the government lawyers had cause to creep. One of IBM's less savory practices in those days was a sales technique called "FUD" (fear, uncertainty and doubt). IBM used it with thuggish delight whenever it felt like stopping a CIO from buying a color other than blue. IBM would put on a sly Jack Nicholson grin and say to these CIOs: "Boys, nobody gets fired for buying IBM." Wink, wink. The CIOs didn't stand a chance. 

Try to imagine Microsoft running out of cash in 2006. You can't. That's the point. Nobody saw IBM's quick demise, either. 

When IBM's board tapped Lou Gerstner for CEO in early 1993, investors expected a quick breakup. It fit the new chief's history. Gerstner had cut his choppers at McKinsey and RJR Nabisco. With his background in consulting and finance--all brains and no soul, apparently--Gerstner looked like a bad bet to stick around for long. He seemed to have "pump-and-dump" written all over him.His first public utterance as IBM chief hardened the hired-gun image. He said: "The last thing IBM needs right now is a vision. It needs a kick in the gonads, and I'm just the tyrant to do it." 

Actually, Gerstner uttered only the first sentence. I made up the second. Still, that's what everyone, including IBM's dog-whipped shareholders, imagined Gerstner had really meant by his no-vision statement. 

Well, during his nine years at IBM Gerstner has not disappointed his shareholders. IBM is up fivefold in nine years. The Dow during the same period has merely tripled. But where Gerstner faked out everybody is on the vision thing. He lied to us. IBM has had a vision all these years. For example: 

* In 1993, Gerstner's first year, IBM fetched 1,087 patents, the highest number in the country. This was the first time since 1985 that an American company led the list. 

* That same year IBM announced that blue-laser technology could read and write data at a rate five times higher than the infrared-laser-based rewritable optical-disk drives of the day. 

Not a bad first year. In subsequent years Gerstner's IBM piled on the vision it wasn't supposed to possess. Big Blue: 

* Released the first wave of speech-recognition software for personal computers in the form of the IBM Personal Dictation System, later renamed VoiceType Dictation. Couch potatoes in 2004 will be able to yell "Pepperoni!" at their TVs and 10 minutes later answer a knock from Domino's. 

* Developed new optical-disk storage technology, which stacks two or more recording surfaces on top of each other. 

* Invented an optical microscope with greater magnification than had yet been known. This let researchers see objects as small as 1 nanometer in size--about five times larger than a single atom. 

* Built the world's fastest supercomputer, capable of performing 12 trillion calculations per second (12 teraflops), to simulate nuclear explosions. Reduced the need to make Nevada disappear. 

* Delivered the world's first copper-wired microprocessors, generally boosting chip performance by a third. 

* Discovered a process called the "quantum mirage" effect. It uses quantum waves to transfer information from one part of a nanoprocessor to another without relying on any physical connection. Rumored to be beta-tested by Shirley MacLaine and Cleopatra. 

* Made a mainframe act like a Linux computer cluster. 

* Discovered how to control nanoparticles, a new class of magnetic materials made of iron and platinum. These particles boost storage densities to as high as 150 gigabits per square inch from the current standard of 35 gigabits per square inch. 

* Built the first array of carbon nanotube transistors, which could replace silicon chips in ten years. 

* Announces "grid computing" initiative, which lets your ThinkPad tap the combined supercomputing power of all the machines attached to the Net. 

* Invented "flubber," enabling short, bald accountants from Danbury, Conn. to form a new NBA franchise and wrest the championship from the L.A. Lakers in six games. 

Gosh, I've lied to you again--on that last one. But my hero is Lou Gerstner, who fibbed to us about the vision thing. Look how well it's turned out. 

To read past Digital Rules columns, go to www.forbes.com/karlgaard. 

Document fb00000020010905dx9h000mk


More Like This

 Article 199 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

ENOUGH JUICE TO RUN YOUR LAPTOP FOR DAYS 

By Irene M. Kunii Edited by Catherine Arnst 
267 words 
17 September 2001
BusinessWeek 
103 
No. 3749 
English
(c) 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Today's ultralight laptop computers run at blazing speeds. But they're energy hogs that often deliver a meager two hours of continuous use. That should change in the next couple of years, when Japan's NEC Corp. hopes to offer a powerful, compact fuel cell as an energy source. These devices convert the chemical energy of fuels such as hydrogen into electricity by means of an electrochemical reaction. But NEC has added a twist: It plans to fashion a key part of the fuel cell from carbon nanotubes. 

Nanotubes are long, cylindrical wonder molecules made up of a lattice of carbon atoms. First created 10 years ago by Sumio Iijima, an NEC scientist, they're 100,000 times thinner than a human hair yet stronger than steel. And they conduct electricity better than copper. 

In their latest breakthrough, Iijima and his team discovered horn-shaped nanotubes that can serve as highly efficient electrodes in fuel cells. Thanks to their shape, the ``nanohorns'' cluster together to provide an immense surface area for electrochemical reactions, boosting the efficiency of the fuel cell. Although still in an early stage of development, the new device promises to provide 10 times the power capacity of a high-density lithium-ion battery of comparable size. That means enough juice to run a laptop nonstop for several workdays. ``We have two to three years work ahead of us,'' says Iijima. ``But I think we'll be making a contribution.'' 

Photograph: POWER PLANT: Nanohorn molecule 


Document bw00000020010913dx9h0000r


More Like This

 Article 202 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

CHIP WIZARDRY: TRANSISTORS THAT BUILD THEMSELVES 

By Neil Gross Edited by Catherine Arnst 
282 words 
29 October 2001
BusinessWeek 
63 
Number 3755 
English
(Copyright 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Building computer chips packed with millions of transistors is a costly affair, with new plants running upward of $1 billion. That's one reason scientists at Lucent Technologies' Bell Labs are intent on inducing at least some of the elements on a chip to assemble themselves. 

In the Oct. 18 issue of Nature, a Bell Labs team headed by Hendrik Schon describes an important step in this direction. The team has created a transistor in which one of the key features is an ultrathin layer of organic molecules, called thiols. These deposit themselves with perfect precision on a gold-coated silicon substrate. No fancy photolithography is required, says John Rogers, Bell Labs' director of nanotechnology research, referring to today's standard circuit-printing technology. ``The whole thing just happens in a beaker at a chemistry bench,'' he says, and the device performs well as both an amplifier and an on-off switch. 

Like all transistors, this one channels a current between two electrodes. In conventional transistors, these elements must be carefully designed and processed, with special attention to shrinking the distance between the electrodes. At Bell Labs, that's not necessary. Instead, the distance is defined by the size of the minuscule thiol molecules--just one nanometer in length, or about the size of five carbon atoms in a row. 

Hendrik Schon says it could be 10 years before his new chemistry is adopted in commercial chipmaking. But other applications could come faster. The process may be ideal for manufacturing high-tech fabrics for wearable computers, and flexible computer displays that can be folded or rolled. 

Document bw00000020011025dxat0002c


More Like This

 Article 203 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANO MAGNET, BIG BREAKTHROUGH 

Edited by Otis Port 
205 words 
5 November 2001
BusinessWeek 
74 
Number 3756 
English
(Copyright 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Tatiana Makarova wanted to create a superconductor by tightly packing tiny carbon buckyballs into sheets that resemble bubble wrap. Instead, the Russian physicist stumbled on what could be a far more important discovery: a carbon magnet that works at room temperature. Until now, metal-free molecular magnets were mainly cryogenic curiosities, working only at a frigid -255C or below. But Makarova's nano bubbles stay magnetic all the way up to 200C, according to her report in the Oct. 18 issue of Nature. 

Buckyballs are about one-millionth as fat as a human hair. If they can be applied as magnetic coatings, the amount of data that could be stored on hard drives might jump 5,000-fold, to 30 trillion bits per square centimeter. That's enough to hold roughly 10,000 encyclopedias. 

Why the bubble-wrap configuration retains its magnetic properties at room temperature is a mystery, says Makarova, who is based at Ioffe Physico-Technical Institute in St. Petersburg but is working on nano bubble magnetism with a team from Sweden's Umea University. The group hopes that understanding the basic physics will lead to advances in electrical and electronic devices. 

Document bw00000020011101dxb50000u


More Like This

 Article 204 *******************    



Technology 

Scientists Build Molecular Logic Circuits 

By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
679 words 
9 November 2001
The Wall Street Journal 
B3 
English
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Several teams of scientists have used exotic technologies at the molecular level to create tiny but functioning logic circuits -- the fundamental building blocks of computers -- in a boost to the nascent field of nanoelectronics. 

These molecular logic circuits, built by researchers at Harvard University, Lucent Technologies Inc.'s Bell Laboratories and Delft University of the Netherlands, aren't likely to have any immediate practical use. But they demonstrate that nanoscale electronic devices can be built in a variety of different ways, work that seems likely to kick off a much broader research effort aimed at testing and perfecting the devices. 

For more than a decade, scientists have known how to manipulate individual atoms and molecules, although their initial efforts effectively involved picking up and moving atoms one at a time. As researchers honed their skills, however, hopes rose that they might find ways to assemble electronic devices at a molecular scale. 

Such devices could offer several advantages. They would be incredibly tiny, even by today's standards, which could allow engineers to pack them together much more tightly to yield more powerful chips. They might even assemble themselves from careful chemical preparations, avoiding the cost and expense involved in today's semiconductor-chip processing. 

Researchers aren't there yet, but the Harvard, Bell Labs and Delft teams have taken some significant steps in that direction. All three groups report their work today in the online or print version of the journal Science. 

The Harvard group, led by chemist Charles Lieber, focused on the use of semiconducting nanowires, thin ridges just a few atoms thick that can be either grown or deposited on a silicon surface. By crossing two such wires, Dr. Lieber's team was able to form a transistor; by laying down nanowires that connected several such transistors, the group was able to form simple working circuits without the use of standard semiconductor-manufacturing techniques. 

The Delft team, by contrast, built transistors out of carbon nanotubes, which are cylinders only a few atoms in diameter that can conduct electricity under certain circumstances. Physicist Cees Dekker and his fellow researchers were able to create circuits with as many as three nanotube-based "nanotransistors" on a single silicon chip, although wiring them together required the use of standard chip-processing techniques. 

At Bell Labs, a group headed by chemist Zhenan Bao took an entirely different approach. The scientists laid down a thin film of an organic chemical on a silicon surface, attached electrical contacts and found they had created a transistor exactly one molecule thick. The ultimate practicality of such organic transistors isn't clear, although it might point the way to circuits that could be imprinted directly on plastic or in clothing, said physicist Jan Hendrik Schoen, another member of the team. 

It is far too early to say which of these or other approaches might ultimately prove most useful. Indeed, scientists from all three teams acknowledged that it might make most sense to combine some of the approaches, such as by using nanotubes to link up organic-monolayer transistors. 

"It will take several more years before we see which areas are more promising and which are dead ends," said Stan Williams, a nanotechnology researcher at Hewlett-Packard Co.'s corporate laboratory. "We'll have lots of interesting tools to choose from going forward." 


---
                   Making Nanocircuits
  Three ways of building molecular-level electronic circuits
  APPROACH: Nanotubes
  WHAT IT IS: Carbon tubes several atoms in diameter that can conduct
electricity
  ADVANTAGES: Fine "wires" a few atoms thick grown out of silicon
  DISADVANTAGES: Thin organic films only a molecule thick
  APPROACH: Crossed Nanowires
  WHAT IT IS: Extremely small, can act as wires or transistors
  ADVANTAGES: Function as transistors when crossed, can be packed
together very closely
  DISADVANTAGES: "Self-assemble" into single-molecule transistors
  APPROACH: Organic Monolayers
  WHAT IT IS: Tricky to place, and tube properties can vary
  ADVANTAGES: Still requires some semiconductor processing
  DISADVANTAGES: May degrade when heated, requires semiconductor
processing
  Source: WSJ research


Document j000000020011109dxb90000a


More Like This

 Article 205 *******************    



Questions of Security: Hart Senate Building May Never Be Rid of Anthrax 

By John J. Fialka 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
535 words 
9 November 2001
The Wall Street Journal 
A8 
English
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

WASHINGTON -- The Hart Senate Office Building may never be completely cleaned of the anthrax spores contaminating it, a panel of outside scientists has told Congress. 

The scientists said the cleanup effort, being lead by the Environmental Protection Agency, was a giant "experiment" that will require the U.S. government to set a relative standard for "how clean is clean?" 

EPA regulatory requirements may have to be waived, according to one scientist, in order to use a new decontaminating agent developed by the Defense Department. 

Fragmented policies by the EPA, the Department of Health and Human Services and other agencies involved are "enough to make Humpty Dumpty blush," said Rep. Sherwood Boehlert (R., N.Y.), chairman of the House Science Committee, which received the panel's findings. 

Traces of anthrax have been found on three floors of the Hart Building since a letter containing a deadly, floating form of the bacterium was opened there on Oct. 15. The EPA, which is managing the cleanup effort, had proposed to fumigate the building with a gas, chlorine dioxide. Now, however, it is planning a more cautious approach, using a variety of technologies including a liquid form of chlorine dioxide to clean surfaces. 

"No building can be sterilized or treated in a way that removes every single spore," said James R. Baker Jr., an allergist who has been working on Defense Department-sponsored decontamination methods at the University of Michigan. He said the U.S. may have to monitor senators and other office workers who return to the building, giving them long-term medical and psychiatric support, if necessary. 

The nation's only previous experience of cleaning anthrax from a large building was at Fort Detrick in Maryland, where Army experiments with anthrax and other germ-warfare agents were terminated by President Nixon in 1969. Manuel S. Barbeito, who oversaw the cleanup, said the Army used formaldehyde gas to decontaminate a large laboratory and that the building has been occupied for years without ill effects. 

Dr. Baker, who has founded a small company to develop a new emulsion that kills anthrax and other bacteria, said the EPA has asked for it but won't waive its regulatory process so the emulsion can be used without the testing required for commercial products. 

"There needs to be a limited government approval for a specific government use," said Dr. Baker, who added that his seven-person company, NanoBio Corp. of Ann Arbor, Mich., doesn't have the several million dollars needed to support tests required by the EPA. 

EPA spokeswoman Tina Kreisher said the agency is still evaluating Dr. Baker's emulsion and could grant him a "crisis exemption" under U.S. pesticide laws if it was needed for the Hart cleanup. 

Lynn Goldman, an epidemiologist from Johns Hopkins University, said the U.S. also must develop an agreed sampling technique to determine what level of removal has been achieved. "Zero is not going to be a very possible goal," she said, noting that the microscopic spores will be hard to remove from paper, desk drawers and ventilation ducts. 

Document j000000020011109dxb90001j


More Like This

 Article 206 *******************    



Technology 

Totally Wired U.; UC San Diego's wired campus. 

Quentin Hardy 
993 words 
12 November 2001
Forbes Magazine 
126 
Volume 168; Issue 12 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

To see where technology will take us tomorrow, enroll at UC San Diego today. 

Lawrence Smarr inhabits the ivory tower, yet he helped create underpinnings of the Internet, the World Wide Web and Netscape. Now he wants to spend up to $500 million over five years to create the future. 

Working out of the University of California, San Diego, Smarr is constructing a campus full of high-speed wireless connections, supercomputers, nanotechnology labs and wall-size flat-panel screens. The idea is to build the high-tech environment most of the world won't see for another decade and watch it generate new discoveries, demands and disciplines. 

"There can't be many other buildings in the country with nanotech clean rooms on one side and high-end virtual reality studios on the other," says Smarr from his hilltop offices. "We want to get an integrated version of the largest computing cluster and live in it." 

Smarr formed the California Institute for Telecommunications & Information Technology a year ago, as one of the worst-ever tech depressions was settling in. But he insists now is the perfect time to press on and decide how to build even more powerful technologies. 

The Net has long been a network of networks, linking desktop computers, servers and mainframes. Smarr wants to strengthen those connections to create a dynamic global computer--a kind of Ubiquinet, if you will--by adding millions of sensors on Earth, in space and even inside us to provide a rich and continuous information flow. "We'll discover patterns all over the place you never knew were there--how traffic works, how flu moves through a population," he says. 

Even before construction begins next year on the institute's main building, Smarr has raised $100 million from the state, its university system and 50 firms, including Ericsson, Qualcomm, Broadcom and Applied Micro Circuits. The project, run by UCSD and UC Irvine, promises donors an early peek at successful technologies, with an option to buy. 

Then again, Smarr could be chairing a $500 million belly flop. Publicly funded projects to create new technologies are usually ineffective compared with market-driven ventures. "Federal labs such as Argonne and Los Alamos do great science but have been less successful at developing commercial projects,"says Paul Horn, IBM's research chief. 

But Smarr is an academic who has panned successfully for gold. A florist's son from Missouri, Smarr, 53, is an engineering professor who cofounded the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1985. The Internet's earliest development stretched back to 1969, but Smarr helped speed its development by building the National Science Foundation's fiber backbone. He also oversaw the development of NCSA Mosaic--the Web browser that led to Netscape Navigator--as well as the popular open-source server software known as Apache. 

Smarr was headed back to teaching when he got a call from UCSD about starting the new institute. "I was thinking, 'Are there waves of technology to come?'" The big changes ahead, he says, will come from the wireless Web touching everything from computers to cars; broadband connections everywhere; and lots of fast optical links among big computers. 

Smarr has already drawn on a network of area schools, institutes and businesses to get things started. He recently scored $20 million from the National Institutes of Health to combine magnetic resonance imaging data among machines at UCSD, Duke and Harvard. MRI data have been keyed to single machines, making it hard to merge the results from one study with those at another lab. With such machines networked, Alzheimer's disease researchers hope to speed work toward a cure, using the San Diego Supercomputer Center and its affiliates. 

Smarr is filling a nature reserve at UC Irvine with sensors to transmit environmental data to San Diego supercomputers, which are modeling weather patterns, seismic activity and behavior of animal populations. Spherical video cameras record 360-degree views of the 17,000-student school. Any part of the round images can be made into a two-dimensional view, while programs find and match faces with stored video images. With the war on terrorism in full swing, the Department of Defense and national security agencies are already interested. 

Such projects will throw off huge amounts of data, and one aim of the institute is to develop the large-scale database management tools required to synthesize and use all that information. Smarr is forging fiber links among computers at Urbana-Champaign, San Diego, CalTech and Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois to form a "TeraGrid," capable of performing 13.5 trillion operations per second, as powerful as 13,000 desktop computers. 

Even if the computers can handle the raw data, people must make sense of it all. Smarr wants to find new ways to visualize data. Down the road from UCSD, 30-foot screens at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography project geomorphic data obtained from radar, sonar and satellites, combined into a single 3-D image. Using a joystick, a geographer can float above the Earth, then zoom in on the bottom of Lake Tahoe, with no loss of detail. Possible applications here include ore and oil exploration, as well as better steering mechanisms for cruise missiles or remote-control robots. 

With a project this big, the most interesting results may be unintentional--and completely unknown at this point. That's the idea. "I showed 50 chief executives Mosaic in 1994, and they told me it had no business use," Smarr says. 

Since those days, Web-related firms have had a market cap as high as $395 billion, before crashing to $44 billion, lately rising about 30% from the low. In all, substantial wealth creation and, in Smarr's view, a big success for the results of advanced research. "If I see that again here, I'll be happy." 

Document fb00000020011105dxbc00014


More Like This

 Article 207 *******************    



Cakes in Space; Satellites get small. 

Erika Brown 
197 words 
12 November 2001
Forbes Magazine 
128 
Volume 168; Issue 12 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

There may be no need to bet the house on a single bird again. 

Scientists at NASA have blended ideas from distributed computing and nanotechnology to stage a new mission that may alter the course of the space program. Dubbed "Nanosat Constellation Trailblazer," in 2004 the project will launch three birthday-cake-size satellites to study the mysterious magnetosphere. One-fortieth the mass of traditional payload-bearing birds, the cakes cost only $15 million apiece, compared with $150 million for their weightier cousins. They will travel for six months in a synchronized elliptical orbit as high as 23,000 miles above Earth (the Space Shuttle hovers only 300 miles high). Their job: to monitor the magnetosphere, a layer just outside the atmosphere shielding the Earth from the potentially harmful electromagnetic radiation of the sun. Each satellite is packed with advanced tech aimed at testing key concepts of smaller, smarter spacecraft. 

If the test works, NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center will launch a 100-nanosatellite constellation by 2010. As with the distributed-computing scheme of the Internet, redundancy is bliss: If one unit fails, another picks up the slack. 

Document fb00000020011105dxbc00016


More Like This

 Article 208 *******************    


Features/Bioterror 

See This Goop? It Kills Anthrax ; And the tiny biotech startup that invented it has been thrust into a national crisis that is upending its business. 

Julie Creswell 
1,156 words 
12 November 2001
Fortune 
147 
Vol. 144, Issue: 9 
English
Copyright (c) 2001 ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved. 

Inside the plain little container I'm looking at may just be our best stopgap against bioterror. Dr. James Baker, chief scientist at the Ann Arbor, Mich., biotech firm NanoBio, holds up the bottle and twists off the cap. "A little of this rubbed into the hands can protect postal workers from anthrax," he says, peering at me over his glasses. Oh, sure, I think, that's great--until it starts eating away their skin, right? Before I can ask about side effects, Baker shoves his finger into the bottle, removing it to show the bio killing agent, which, strangely, looks a lot like sunblock. "Plus, it's a great moisturizer," he says, grinning, as he rubs the lotion into his hands. 

Germany's Bayer, which manufactures the antibiotic Cipro, isn't the only company swept up in America's grim scramble to fend off germ attacks. The dawn of international bioterrorism is challenging companies like NanoBio too. Like Bayer, this tiny startup is caught in a dilemma it never foresaw: how to meet the public's needs without sacrificing its own financial goals. Two months ago, NanoBio was an obscure seven-person company spawned by the University of Michigan, where Baker is director of the Center for Biologic Nanotechnology. Its research was funded primarily by an $11 million grant from DARPA, the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Its offices were in the basement of a bank in downtown Ann Arbor; its employees sat on 12-year-old used furniture. Though NanoBio's digs were dull, its claim was startling: It had created a nontoxic agent that can destroy most every virus, bacterium, and fungus around, from influenza to E. coli to tough-to-terminate anthrax. (The product can help prevent people from contracting anthrax but can't cure them after they've become infected.) NanoBio's plan was to license its microbe-zapping formulas to drug and consumer goods companies, making money by collecting royalties on its patents within a couple of years. 

Then bioterror struck. Today, NanoBio is desperately seeking anonymity. It moved to a bland corporate park where its office has no name on the door. It yanked its street address off its Website, whose hit rate jumped from 350 a month to 1,000 a day. And it is struggling to adapt to a biodefense business model that may put the company's commercial--and financial--aspirations on hold. Among the firm's worries: that close association with anthrax will cause customers to overlook other potential commercial applications for its products, and that investors won't want to back a company whose largest customer is Uncle Sam. "We want to be good citizens and do what we can to help in the crisis," says CEO Ted Annis. "But there is definitely an opportunity cost." 

What's in NanoBio's amazing bio fighting agent, anyway? Just soybean oil floating in water with nontoxic detergents. "It can be rubbed on the skin, eaten, or put into liquids like orange juice," claims Annis. "I even put it in my hot tub." 

What makes the stuff potent is how it is made. Think about what happens when you shake up salad dressing. Bubbles of oil are dispersed in the vinegar. Those bubbles contain energy that is stored as surface tension; the energy is released when the droplets coalesce again. NanoBio's technology--called an anti-microbial nanoemulsion-- forms these bubbles at the supertiny nano level. A nanometer is one- billionth of a meter, or about 100,000 times narrower than a human hair. The nanodroplets, stabilized by the detergents they float in, are small enough to literally bombard the lipids, or fats, found in bacteria and viruses, blowing the bugs up. NanoBio's formula convinces a dormant anthrax spore that surface conditions are ripe for it to germinate into an active anthrax bacterium. As it germinates, the spore forms a lipid layer, which the nanoemulsion promptly assaults. Within a couple of hours, the anthrax is dead. 

The day after the Sept. 11 attacks, CEO Annis called together the NanoBio staff. "Nobody mentioned anthrax specifically at the meeting, but we thought it was likely that the terrorists' next punch was already planned and that it would be a bio event," he says. Realizing that the company's initial product-rollout timetable was about to be put into hyperdrive, Annis began gathering the paperwork needed for fast-track EPA and FDA approvals. And he braced for a barrage of interest from reporters, following a local newspaper story on the company; the media soon dubbed NanoBio's decontaminant "the salad- oil cure." 

NanoBio's product isn't the only promising anthrax killer. A foam developed by New Mexico's Sandia National Laboratories supposedly neutralizes pathogens and chemicals; it was recently used to decontaminate some NBC offices. In mid-October, Johns Hopkins University tested bio killing products from both companies, but it hasn't yet made its findings public. A DARPA spokesperson says other tests on the NanoBio formula have shown "good initial results." 

Now NanoBio hopes to get $5 million in emergency federal funding to hire more people, do more tests, and start contracting out the manufacture of large quantities of the substance. Annis expects a thumbs-up within days. If NanoBio's product wins fast-track regulatory approval, it could be available to the military and the public for use on buildings, and perhaps even on the skin, within six months. The company says it would need another $20 million and 24 months to develop preventive nasal sprays. 

All this is a race NanoBio didn't want to compete in. "Our future isn't going to be in government applications. A lot of what we're doing for the government is going to be done at cost," says Baker. "Our future is going to be with all the commercial customers that we can't let drop off while we're dealing with this other stuff." 

But in the back of NanoBio's office sit two dozen empty white 55- gallon barrels. A few days before, DARPA had asked Annis and Baker if they could make enough decontaminant to clean several anthrax- tainted offices in the Senate. NanoBio's small lab mixers will have to run day and night to fill the barrels. "This is not the way we want to do this," sighs Annis, shaking his head. "This is all a duct- tape solution." 

FEEDBACK: jcreswell@fortunemail.com 

Quote: "It can be rubbed on the skin, eaten, or put into liquids like orange juice," claims NanoBio's CEO. "I even put it in my hot tub." 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES SCHNEPFAnthrax busters: NanoBio's seven-person staff is flooded withdemand for its bio-lotion. 


Document fortu00020011101dxbc00007


More Like This

 Article 209 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

BIOCOMPUTERS THAT DON'T NEED HUMAN HELP 

By Peter Coy Edited by Catherine Arnst 
229 words 
3 December 2001
BusinessWeek 
67 
Number 3760 
English
(Copyright 2001 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Think of a DNA molecule as software. Think of enzymes that work on DNA as little bits of hardware. Put lots of DNA and enzymes in a test tube, and you have 1 trillion primitive computers, all working in parallel in a single drop of water at a billion operations per second with 99.8% accuracy. 

In the Nov. 22 issue of Nature, Israeli scientists at the Weizmann Institute of Science and Technion Israel Institute of Technology say they have built such a biological computing machine. It takes bits of DNA as inputs and manipulates them to produce outputs. The scientists theorize that it can execute 765 different programs--although nothing as complex as, say, a spellchecker. For example, one program the team got to work looks at a string of zeroes and ones and determines if it contains an even number of ones. 

DNA computing has been a hot research area since the mid-1990s. But Weizmann project leader Ehud Shapiro says his team has made an important advance in setting up the DNA ``software'' so that the computer works without human intervention. He sees the device as a step toward more sophisticated nanocomputers that could reside in the body, detect chemical abnormalities, then synthesize and release drugs to fix them. 

Document bw00000020011129dxc30001u


More Like This

 Article 210 *******************    



E-Business: Starting Gate 

By Lisa Bransten 
891 words 
3 December 2001
The Wall Street Journal 
B6 
English
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[What's New in Venture Capital] 

Investing in Himself 

WHEN RAISING venture money gets too onerous where does an entrepreneur turn for cash? How about his own wallet? 

That's what Vivek Wadhwa did as his start-up, Relativity Technologies, started to run out of money last month. At the urging of his existing investors, Mr. Wadhwa spent time looking for a new investor in his company, but he quickly realized money would come at terms harsher than he could bear. 

"In going out and getting funding I was dismayed at how bad things were," he says. He adds that he was willing to take a lower valuation on his company and accept the tough terms that have become the norm, but when investors started to cut the value of his company below what it was worth two years ago, he balked. 

Relativity, Cary, N.C., makes software that adapts older computer systems to the Internet. The company has about 70 customers and expects to have revenue "in the teens of millions" next year and to hit break-even later this quarter. So, instead of raising about $5 million at what he calls "draconian" terms, he decided to cut spending at the company and go back to his existing investors with a deal: If he and his management team put in $700,000 he would need only an additional $1.3 million to get to profitability with some sort of protective cash cushion. He still would have to take a lower valuation on the company than the $76 million investors gave it a year ago -- and he isn't saying exactly what that is -- but it is higher than the $30 million valuation from 1999 and one he says he can live with. 

The fact that the amount was lower and the management team was willing to put some skin in the game made investors more comfortable about putting in more money. "It sure helped us feel very positive about his confidence in the business story," says Chuck Johnson, a general partner at Atlanta venture firm Noro-Moseley. But Mr. Johnson adds that just because Mr. Wadhwa was willing to put his own money in didn't automatically mean Noro-Moseley would go on funding the company. "We spent . . . time validating that his cost reductions and revenue pipeline could lead to near term cash-flow break-even," he says. 

Little Bit of Money 

THESE DAYS, if a company wants to step on the gas, sometimes it needs a little topping-off first. That is what 

NanoOpto decided to do by reopening its first round of investment and adding $4 million to the $12 million it already has raised. U.S. Trust put in most of the new money, with existing investors Morgenthaler Ventures, Bessemer Venture Partners and New Enterprise Associates taking a share. 

The Somerset, N.J., company is in both the hot area of nanotechnology -- or making things very small (a nanometer is one-billionth of a meter) -- and the not-so-hot area of optical networking. It makes optical-networking components that are smaller than the wavelength of light and has developed a manufacturing process that can put such a small component on a chip. The technology comes out of research conducted by Stephen Chou, a Princeton University engineering professor. 

The company has test versions of its product in the market and plans to start full commercial production around the middle of next year. If the economy doesn't turn around soon that could mean they will be launching sales into one of the toughest telecom markets in years, a big reason for taking the extra money. 

"We've basically gone back and looked at every company in our portfolio and we want to make sure they had 18 months of runway so they can make it until the telecom market comes back," says Greg Blonder, a general partner at Morgenthaler and a member of NanoOpto's board. 

Money in the Pot 

IT'S OLD NEWS that entrepreneurs are having trouble raising money, but it isn't a walk in the park for venture capitalists, either. Deep corporate pockets backing venture endeavors helps. And that is the case for two new venture funds. 

Norwest Venture Partners, with a 40-year track record and only one investor to convince, closed a new $400 million fund last month. The Palo Alto, Calif., firm had to persuade only Wells Fargo -- which was known as Norwest until 1998 when it bought Wells Fargo and adopted that identity. And Nokia is announcing today it is setting aside 40 million euros ($35.8 million) to help start companies created by its own employees. The fund will allow Nokia to finance companies that seem like interesting businesses but may not be strategic to the company, says Johan Schmidt, head of new-growth businesses within Nokia's venture organization. 

Seedlings 

TODAY, Technology Crossover Ventures is announcing that Stan Meresman has joined the firm as general partner and chief operating officer. Mr. Meresman spent the past five years mentoring start-up companies and before that served as chief financial officer at Silicon Graphics and Cypress Semiconductor . . . Intraspect Software says it has raised $33 million in a sixth round of financing led by GE Equity. The Brisbane, Calif., company makes collaboration software. 

Document j000000020011203dxc30000i


More Like This

 Article 211 *******************    



Desert Blooms; A lot of online stock pickers have been losing their shirts lately. Not these guys. 

Adam Leitzes and Joshua Solan, with Ben Berentson 
1,565 words 
3 December 2001
Forbes Best of The Web 
13 
Volume 168; Issue 14 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

In difficult markets, smart stock pickers prevail. Here are five online mavens thriving in adversity. 

Brandon GoyetteScreen Name: WallstarbSite: www.FinancialChat.comLocation: Nashua, N.H. 

Goyette is the ringleader of Financial Chat, home to the ActiveTrader chat room. He oversees a diverse and occasionally rowdy group, and actively participates in the never-ending discussions. "I only have one pair of eyes," says Goyette. "But with 1,000 other pairs of eyes looking at every conceivable stock, news service and media outlet, it is very seldom that we as a group do not know why a stock is moving. More important, we often know why a stock should move before it moves."Goyette, 31, trained at Goldman Sachs as a stock analyst and then did fixed-income arbitrage for hedge fund Mariner Investment Group before starting his own hedge fund, Delta Investment Group, in January 2000. So far this year his fund is up 95%. His investment philosophy is "to be where others are not." He attempts to uncover small-cap diamonds in the rough before anyone on Wall Street takes notice. A computer science and finance graduate of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Goyette focuses on small tech companies and insists that they have sound financials. He places a particular emphasis on companies with high cash and low debt. He wants to ensure that his investments have enough capital and financial flexibility to tide them through the many months it can take before Wall Street begins to pay attention. 

These days Goyette's investment approach has him focusing on nanotechnology, the science of manufacturing devices at the subatomic level. "Nanotechnology, while still in its infancy, holds the promise to revolutionize many different aspects of our economy and civilization," says Goyette. 

Favorite Stocks: Nanophase Technologies 

and Nanogen 

as pure plays in the nanotechnology space. Says Goyette, "Once the average person has heard of nanotechnology, everyone will be scrambling for these types of stocks." 

Vaughn Okumura 

Site: www.VTOReport.comLocation: Pearl City, Hawaii 

At 36, Vaughn Okumura, CPA, is retired and living in Hawaii. His story is the same as many successful individual investors: a few hard knocks at the start, "visions of losing it all" as a stock account balance was depleted and a final, miraculous recovery. Okumura says his holdings went from $35,000 to $7,000 to $2 million after taxes in a matter of ten years. 

He started his site, VTO Report, in 1998 to satisfy his passion for stock investing and to teach others his technical analysis techniques. Fundamentals? "It's like driving forward by looking in the rearview mirror," he says. On the other hand, "the chart of a stock will give you clues as to how a particular company is operating long before it reports its earnings." 

Okumura's most successful strategy outlined on the site is his short-term trades of the Nasdaq 100 index. Up 10% year-to-date and 184% since 1997, the portfolio uses a simple relative strength indicator to determine when the market is overbought and oversold. His site's "smooth" stocks are consistent winners over many years. "Most investors buy stocks in a downtrend thinking they've uncovered a bargain," he cautions. "But in most cases, they end up with a portfolio of clunkers." 

Favorite Stocks: Harley-Davidson 

, Stryker 

and Sysco 

. "All three have been in nonvolatile uptrends over the last 15 years." 

Peter Suzman 

Site: www.SiliconInvestor.comLocation: Newton, Mass. 

As a Harvard Law graduate and the founder of a company that constructs and administers stock-option plans for public companies, Peter Suzman is not your typical Internet message board participant. He's also not your typical biotech stock expert. Suzman has emerged as a leader on community-investment site Silicon Investor, where he has contributed thousands of messages on the subject of biotechnology. Says Suzman, "This is the century when many, if not most, common diseases will be cured or controlled." 

Biotech is perfectly suited to Suzman's long-term buy-and-hold strategy. "One unusual aspect of the drug industry is that things happen very slowly, so you can analyze many years ahead," explains Suzman. "One knows the universe of new drugs that might be approved over the next five years, and also when every existing drug is going off patent." Of course, many biotech stocks plummet when drugs they are backing fail. Suzman alleviates the impact of such occurrences with a diversified portfolio of biotech stocks. 

With more than 90% of his portfolio invested in biotech, Suzman devotes hours to reading annual and quarterly reports of biotech companies, health care conference proceedings, medical journal articles and clinical trial results. He also utilizes Silicon Investor to query industry scientists, all of whom disguise their identities with pseudonyms. Suzman claims his strategy has generated annual returns in excess of 60% in 1998, 1999 and 2000. This year, however, Suzman is down 10% so far. 

Favorite Stocks: Sepracor 

. "The best short- and medium-term pipeline in biotech. SEPR makes patented improvements in existing drugs, which is a lot less risky than developing brand-new drugs." He also likes Intermune 

and Aviron 

. 

Bill Ginsberg 

Screen Name: shortboySite: www.shortboy.comLocation: New York, N.Y. 

Bill Ginsberg requested that his picture not be included with this article and you won't find much about his background on his site. As a short-seller Ginsberg is fearful of being labeled a bad guy or somehow as unpatriotic because he benefits when stock prices go down. 

In 1996, after dropping out of Columbia Business School and trying his hand at trading options on the floor of the American Stock Exchange, Ginsberg decided to start trading his own capital. At first he thought his 76% return from short-selling in a strong bull market was a fluke. But his 49% return in 1997 and 40% return in 1998 convinced Ginsberg that he was good at identifying peaks of major stock run-ups. 

Ginsberg took his strategy to the Web by launching Shortboy.com in 1999. At first, he divulged his picks to anyone who would listen. On July 1, 2001, Ginsberg began charging $119 per quarter for real-time access to his picks (delayed content is still available free of charge). So far, more than 200 people have subscribed to the service. 

Ginsberg's approach is simple: short high-cap, highly liquid stocks whose gains have been overextended. He follows closely the bullishness and bearishness indicator published by Investors Intelligence, which paints a picture of the market sentiment of investment advisers. When more than 55% of advisers indicate they are bullish, Ginsberg believes the market is due for a fall. When bearishness outweighs bullishness, Ginsberg gets out of the market because he doesn't like to go long on stocks. 

Favorite Stocks: Short, Kohl's 

(KSS) and Laboratory Corp. of America 

(LH). "Kohl's has a P/E of 40. Any disappointment and it will drop to 30. LH has a P/E ratio around 37, and has risen from a price of $10 in three years." 

Kevin Fravel 

Site: www.marketocracy.comLocation: Bristol, Pa. 

Thanks to the Fed's barrage of rate cuts, housing is one of the few remaining vibrant sectors in the economy. That's been a boon to Kevin Fravel's housing-stock-heavy mutual fund portfolio, posted at Marketocracy.com. His Kevin D. Fravel Fund is up 50% since the beginning of the year and 73% since its inception in September 2000. "Inflation and interest rates are all historically low, and those are what drive the home-building industry," says Fravel, a 33-year-old computer programmer. 

Fravel, a devotee of Benjamin Graham, screens for stocks on Multex.com, looking for ones that have a price/book ratio below 1, a P/E ratio below 10, positive revenue growth and increasing operating margins. Fravel also goes to Morningstar.com to check company ratings, looking for strong financial stability. 

He particularly likes smaller, less well-known regional home builders, figuring they are attractive takeover targets for the bigger players. D.R. Horton's 

October takeover of Schuler Homes 

gave Fravel a nearly 48% gain. 

Favorite Stocks: Dominion Homes 

, the largest homebuilder in central Ohio: "The company has a more than $210 million order backlog. It's a takeover target." Hovanian Enterprises 

: "A family-run company. It's trading at its book value of $12 and has a P/E of 5." 

Adam Leitzes and Joshua Solan are the authors of the soon-to-be-published Bulls, Bears, and Brains: Investing with the Best and Brightest of the Financial Internet. John Wiley & Sons, $24.95. 


ONLINE SURVIVORS
NAME              COMPANY (ticker)                  INDUSTRY
                  RECENT PRICE  ADVICE
Brandon Goyette   Nanogen (NGEN)                    Scientific and
technical instruments  $6            Buy
                  Nanophase Technologies (NANX)     Industrial metals
and minerals        5             Buy
Vaughn Okumura    Harley-Davidson (HDI)             Recreational
vehicles                 47            Buy
                  Stryker (SYK)                     Medical instruments
and supplies      55            Buy
                  Sysco (SYY)                       Food wholesale
                  25            Buy
Peter Suzman      Aviron (AVIR)                     Biotechnology
                  33            Buy
                  Intermune (ITMN)                  Drug manufacturer
                  41            Buy
                  Sepracor (SEPR)                   Generic drugs
                  47            Buy
Bill Ginsberg     Kohl's (KSS)                      Department stores
                  61            Short
                  Laboratory Corp. of America (LH)  Medical
laboratories and research     81            Short
Kevin Fravel      Dominion Homes (DHOM)             Residential
construction              12            Buy
                  Hovanian Enterprises (HOV)        Residential
construction              13            Buy


Document fb00000020011217dxc300007


More Like This

 Article 212 *******************    



Second Sight; "I bought it on eBay as a lark, in the days when we all felt rich enough to do such flippant things..." 

Michael S. Malone 
2,377 words 
3 December 2001
Forbes ASAP 
92 
Volume 168; Issue 14 
English
Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

Seen Through A Relic, A Haunting New Vision 

I bought it on eBay as a lark, in the days when we all felt rich enough to do such flippant things. I don't even remember my winning bid, which says something as well. 

It came in a 3-foot-square cardboard box, which I opened on the driveway to minimize the mess, as workmen behind me sanded and hammered away while restoring my house. It was wrapped in a black foam sheet encased in wadded pages of the Connecticut Post. One headline read: "Gates Tells Congress to Trust High Tech." 

I knew what I'd find when I pulled away the sheet: a Norden bombsight. But I was still taken aback by its presence. 

It was black as anthracite, with dust in every corner and curve. The dust of an English runway, perhaps? Or sand from North Africa? Or just the cobwebs of the garage in which it had sat for the past half century. 

It seemed less menacing than coldly malign, in the way only a relic weapon could. Twenty pounds, not much bigger than a football, with a cylinder at one end, a sphere at the other. It was seeded with knurled knobs and toothed gears and dials. From one side hung an old cloth-insulated wire terminating in a plug. Underneath, it held a small pane of glass the size of a cigarette pack. On top, a second pane opened like a porthole into the sphere. And at the center, covered with a rotting rubber eye protector, was a lens. 

I set the contraption atop the recycling bin and stepped back to regard it. On that bright Northern California day, my prize seemed like a dark emissary from a forgotten time. From one angle it looked like a clock mechanism, from another an automobile transmission, from yet another a bomb. 

It was, in fact, all three. Mounted in the nose of a B-17 bomber, attached with gyroscopes and rotating mirrors and cables to the airplane around it, and manipulated by a deft bombardier, the Norden was the most dangerous weapon in the world in the early years of World War II. Once it was set on a target and adjusted for airspeed and other variables, the Norden literally took over for the pilot, flying the plane on a strict approach path and telling the bombardier when to push the button to release the ton of bombs or incendiaries from their racks 10 feet behind him. 

So technologically innovative and important was the Norden--neither the Germans nor the Japanese had anything close--that bombardiers were sworn to do whatever was necessary to keep one from falling into enemy hands. If the bomber was going down, they were to pull out their .45-caliber automatic and shoot it or pull a switch that ignited an explosive mounted inside the device. Or, if all else failed, they were to obey orders to ride the plane right down into oblivion in the German soil. 

My father sat at just such a Norden bombsight on a rickety seat in the Plexiglas nose of the "Badland Bat," a B-17 in the 615th Squadron of the 401st Bomb Group of the 8th Air Force. As the barrels of the twin .50-caliber machine guns overheated from his futile attempts to shoot attacking German fighters, as flak burst just beyond the glass and dying men in planes around him screamed into his headset, and as his heart pounded and his hands shook from the fear and the adrenaline, he would bow his head as though in prayer and bring his eye against the frozen eyepiece. Twisting one knob, then another, he would align the reticulated crosshairs on the target. Then, so freighted with helplessness and horror that the passing seconds seemed like days, he would hit the switch that surrendered control of his life and those of the seven men around him to that little black machine. 

The target itself had been identified that morning at a pre-dawn briefing in a Quonset hut thick with the smell of cigarettes and coffee. The target always had a name--Schweinfurt, Cologne, Berlin--and a title: ball bearing factory, pillboxes, industrial district. But on the map and in the crosshairs, it was merely an image of a bridge or a crossroads, or the shape of a building. There were no people in sight; just the abstract shapes of targets and then the sudden blooming of explosions as the Badland Bat left a swath of fire across miles of German farms, villages, and towns. 

Thirty times over Germany and France between January and June 1944, my father bowed to his bombsight. Looking back, he would tell me that for all the terrors of being fired on by antiaircraft guns and being strafed by German fighters as his bomber flew into and out of target zones, the worst moments were always those seconds when he handed his life over to the Norden--the long moments as he waited for it to tell him to rain death over the countryside. 

My father was a young man of intelligence and imagination, and those combat experiences made him brazen. He sneaked off the base the night before D day to meet a girl in a local pub. They also made him cold-hearted. When a rookie crew arrived to replace his hut mates who had died in an earlier raid, my father teased them, saying they'd taken the doomed side of the shelter; they died the next day on their very first mission. But, after four months and 25 missions, the experience began to break his mind. In letters home, the cocky young man who'd circumvented the censors by disguising his number of raids as his birthday ("I am 21 years old today") found himself toward the end struggling to compose a single coherent sentence ("I can't seem to keep my mind on one thought anymore."). 

Unlike every second man in the 8th Air Force, my father made it home alive and unhurt. Five years later, he was back overseas, this time on a Pacific island and with a new job in Air Force intelligence. Through another lens--this one shielding his eye with a smoky black filter--he watched purple lightning crackle across the mushroom clouds rising from Eniwetok atoll. 

My father returned to Germany, and I was a Cold War baby, born in Munich, then a city of vacant lots scraped smooth of the rubble of a once thriving metropolis. It had become a Norden world, with all of us hurtling forward on autopilot over a menacing landscape. Only a few people, like my father as he took the .32-caliber automatic out of the closet and headed for the Czech border, still felt they had some control of their fate. 

But soon he lost even that. At the end of the decade we came home. My father found himself closing his military career in Washington, D.C., shuttling back and forth as liaison officer between the war rooms of the Pentagon and the White House, and between the CIA and the FBI. It was a position of enormous responsibility but little control. My father began to sit alone at lunch in the garden of the Hirshhorn Museum to calm himself; on Friday nights he would drink to fend off his sense of the inevitable. 

He reached his nadir in October 1962. On duty nights, my mother would awaken me at midnight, and we would drive from Falls Church, Virginia, into D.C., me in pajamas and wrapped in a blanket in the back seat. It was usually so lonely and dark that I would sleep the whole way. But this night was unlike any other. Every light in every building on Pennsylvania Avenue and along the Capitol Mall seemed to be on. Yet the streets were eerily empty. 

We picked up my father. He usually drove us home, but on this night he was incapable of holding the steering wheel. His voice had a tone I'd never heard before--a tone it probably hadn't taken in almost 20 years. The Cuban Missile Crisis had begun. Until we arrived, my father had sat alone, in the basement of the Office of Special Investigations before a bank of Teletype code machines, reading with growing horror as they spit out the beginning of the end of the world. The ICBMs armed, Strategic Air Command at fail-safe, airborne divisions kneeling beside runways. He had known as much as anybody on earth about what was unfolding, but he could do nothing about it. The bombsight had taken over. And for hours he sat helpless at ground zero, waiting to die, knowing his family would die as well. 

Suddenly, it was over. Everything seemed to change. Although it was still a Norden world, the target had receded for the moment. My father had almost been a victim. A heart attack a few weeks later nearly killed him. But he survived, retired from the military with honor, and took a job with NASA, heading west with his family to California. 

We arrived in Silicon Valley just in time to join the illusion. The Valley had been born of war. Military contracts had built Hewlett-Packard and Varian; the nuclear age had given birth to the Valley's largest employer, Lockheed Missile and Space. So, too, had defense orders underwritten the success of the Valley's first modern company, Fairchild Semiconductor. All had grown rich building successive generations of weaponry; they would grow richer yet. 

About the time we arrived, in an event all but forgotten even by historians of technology, the Federal Communications Commission announced that all future televisions would offer not only VHF tuners but UHF tuners as well. It was a little event of immeasurable consequences. Chasing million-unit orders, the chip industry for the first time turned away from the bombsight business and toward the department store. 

It has never turned back. I remember the day my father brought home a Hewlett-Packard 35 calculator and pronounced it a miracle. I remember standing in line, with the boys who would later create the personal computer revolution, in the lobby of a NASA building waiting my turn to play Lunar Lander on a computer terminal. I saw the first Atari video game in the hallway of a comedy club down the street from my house. And I walked with my father through a trade show in San Francisco and saw the Apple I, built by two of my neighbors. 

America no longer seemed a Norden nation. Our fate was no longer on autopilot. Sometimes we even imagined we were flying the plane. My father cheated death for a quarter century. Each time his heart would fail, some new technology appeared on the scene to save him. He traveled the world, programmed his computer, drank beer, and gave his time to charitable work, acting as though death couldn't catch him. And when he did die--from a fall off a ladder, not from his scarred old heart--even his death seemed an act of will, not helplessness. 

It was now a willful world, as though an alchemy of technology and desire would deliver to us all of our dreams. Our enemies were less defeated than enlisted into a cybernetic common cause. The autopilot retreated so far into memory that two generations forgot it. We replaced it with nostalgia for the future: the aching desire for that distant, more perfect place we could already imagine, promised to us by our technologies. Our perpetual unhappiness was that we were not there yet, a there that raced ahead from calculators and PCs to bioengineering and nanomachines. Somewhere, no doubt just ahead, lay the fulfillment of all our desires. The beauty of it was that now, it seemed, anyone could plot his own flight path and pilot his own life. 

It was in that prelapsarian time, just ended yet long ago, that I carried the Norden bombsight out to the sunny driveway, past the workmen and the new Jaguar, all of them paid for with overvalued stock options. I set it atop the recycling bin, filled with newspaper headlines about the latest stock market record high: "eBay's Whitman America's Richest Woman CEO." I looked through the eyepiece...and saw nothing. Nothing except a mirror reflection of the brilliant day before me. 

Disappointed, I put the device back in its box, another bauble from the bubble, and returned it to the garage, between the old, unread art books and the new, unused porcelain--an evil old black toad forgotten in the shadows. 

Then late on a mid-September afternoon I took the box out again. Our family had just returned from church, where we had, with other Silicon Valleyites in the pews around us, wept and prayed for the thousands murdered by terrorists. As I bowed my head, I felt the distant mechanical shudder of the autopilot kicking in once more. Driving home, I could see my neighbors putting out American flags and glancing up nervously at any sound overhead. We put out a flag of our own. Then, without thinking, I went into the garage and brought out the Norden. 

I did the same as before, though the day was overcast, and the papers in the new recycling bin carried headlines proclaiming "WAR." The Norden was dustier and darker than ever. The eyepiece seemed harder and more brittle. Once again, I bowed and put my face to it. Looking through the lens I saw this time what I had missed before. What my father had seen before me. 

I saw my family and home caught squarely in the bombsight's crosshairs. 

Michael S. Malone is editor at large of Forbes ASAP. He is the author of nine books, including Going Public, The Big Score, and Infinite Loop. His next book, a collection of his writings called The Valley of Heart's Delight, will be published in 2002. 

Document fb00000020011217dxc300066


More Like This

 Article 213 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANO PEAPODS THAT PACK A PUNCH 

Edited by Otis Port 
235 words 
21 January 2002
BusinessWeek 
75 
Number 3766 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Some molecules naturally go together like peas in a pod. Spherical clusters of carbon atoms called buckyballs, for example, are quite comfortable inside straw-shaped nanotubes, also composed of pure carbon. And these nano peapods may function as superfast transistors. That's the promise revealed by intricate measurements of nano peapods by a research team led by Ali Yazdani, a University of Illinois physicist. 

Using a scanning tunneling microscope, the team mapped the movement of buckyballs and electron waves shown in this image inside the lilliputian peapods. They found that changing the location of the peas can transform the pod from a conductor into a semiconductor or an insulator. As a result, in future nanochips, carbon peapods may become a versatile component that can be tuned to play different roles. 

Yazdani's team used peapods produced by David Luzzi's materials science group at the University of Pennsylvania, which first created these complex structures in 1998. Since then, several peapod varieties have been produced. And in Japan, scientists have stuffed metal atoms inside the pealike buckyballs in nanopods. ``There's a whole gamut of things you can put inside'' to modify a peapod's electrical properties, says Yazdani. Studying them all will keep him busy for years. 

Photograph: A POD OF BUCKYBALLS PHOTOGRAPH BY D. HORNBAKER & A. YAZDANI (UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS) 


Document bw00000020020117dy1l00027


More Like This

 Article 214 *******************    



Technology Journal 

H-P, UCLA Receive a Patent for New Technology 

By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
549 words 
24 January 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B8 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Hewlett-Packard Co. and the University of California at Los Angeles said they have received a broad patent for technology that could one day be used to build molecular-scale electronic devices. The patent's claims haven't yet been checked out by outside scientists. 

H-P researchers say the work covered by the patent represents a major step toward building so-called nanoscale electronic devices, which could lead to vastly more dense and powerful computer chips that operate at the scale of individual atoms and molecules. 

"We're trying to create a technology that would recreate integrated circuits," said Philip Kuekes, a computer scientist at H-P. Dr. Kuekes submitted the patent application together with fellow H-P researcher R. Stanley Williams and UCLA chemist James Heath. 

Nanotechnology, the name widely applied to such microscopic inventions, is a hot topic among researchers in Silicon Valley and other scientific centers, though most commercial applications are still years off. 

The new patent lays out several methods for "growing" crossed arrays of tiny wires on a silicon substrate, each wire only a few atoms thick. The junctions of such "nanowires" can serve as electronic switches, according to the patent, and could act as much smaller analogues to existing circuit components such as diodes or transistors. By contrast, today's computer chips are manufactured in a long series of excruciatingly detailed steps, and remain far bulkier than such nanoarrays. 

In addition, the scientists claim a method for building insulating patches into the array of wires, allowing them to subdivide the array into regions that can operate as separate electronic devices. As a result, the researchers say they can build complex logic circuits with this technology, although they haven't yet demonstrated that ability. Logic circuits are the basic computational elements of a computer chip. 

Dr. Williams said the team hasn't yet published any of the work covered by the patent to retain a competitive advantage over other scientists. Now that the patent is public, he said, "we certainly anticipate a significant number of publications this year." 

Patent claims involving basic science are often difficult to verify independently. While examiners at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office attempt to ensure that work is unique and not duplicative of existing "prior art," they are rarely experts in the given field. For true scientific verification, many scientists still look to the peer review -- independent appraisal by other experts -- that is required for publication in leading scientific journals. 

Even an issued patent may not be the last word in intellectual-property rights. Other patents in this field are also likely to issue, and any conflicts will have to be resolved by negotiation and cross-licensing or in the courts. Dr. Williams did say that H-P doesn't intend to enforce its patent in research applications. 

In addition, the U.S. government is now funding follow-up work at both H-P and UCLA through the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. As a result, the government is likely to retain some rights to future applications and could step in if patent holders are restricting access to a technology considered fundamental to progress. 

Document j000000020020124dy1o0001b


More Like This

 Article 215 *******************    



Technology Journal (Inside Today's Journal) 

34 words 
24 January 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
A1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

-- Computers: Gateway's turnaround strategy, centered on stores, is hitting some bumps. 

-- Nanotechnology: H-P and UCLA tout a patent for work toward building molecular-scale electronic devices. 

Document j000000020020124dy1o0002k


More Like This

 Article 216 *******************    



Spending on Science and Technology to Climb 

255 words 
5 February 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
No Page Citation 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration's budget contains billions of dollars in new spending on science and technology projects, a sharp reversal from last year's budget request, which all but ignored both areas. 

Among the biggest winners is the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program, a multiagency effort led by the White House's Office of Science and Technology Policy, whose funding increased 3% to $1.9 billion. The budget also proposes $679 million for the White House's National Nanotechnology Initiative, which supports research devoted to creating tiny but powerful computers, a 17% increase. 

And the White House is seeking to boost the budget for the National Science Foundation by nearly $250 million, to $5.03 billion from $4.79 billion. 

All told, the White House is planning to devote $57 billion to science and technology efforts, a record that represents a sharp 9% increase over last year. The spending accounts for about half of the $111.8 billion in new federal research and development funds, which was up 8% from the fiscal 2002 budget. 

Not all tech programs were so lucky. In his new budget request, the White House proposes to eliminate all funding for the Technology Opportunities Program, a Clinton-era program designed to help bridge the so-called digital divide by bringing computers and Internet access to poor and underserved areas. 

The program, which began in 1994, gave out grants that had to be matched by local government or private-sector funds. 

Document j000000020020205dy250006f


More Like This

 Article 217 *******************    



Bush Offers $2.13 Trillion Budget, Launching Era of Deficit Spending --- Popular Domestic Initiatives Face Security Squeeze In Wake of Sept. 11 

By John D. McKinnon and Shailagh Murray 
Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal 
1,849 words 
5 February 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
A2 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

WASHINGTON -- President Bush formally launched a new era of deficit spending, sending a $2.13 trillion budget to Congress that requires tens of billions of dollars of federal borrowing to pay for vast increases in the military and homeland-security spending. 

At the same time, Mr. Bush is trying to contain the potential political fallout for a return to red ink by tightly squeezing many domestic programs. But he risks another backlash by attempting to curb popular programs such as education. 

Mr. Bush also used his budget blueprint to attempt to jump-start the stalled debate on Capitol Hill over an economic-stimulus bill, urging Congress to adopt nearly $90 billion worth of tax cuts and spending increases this year and another $70 billion-plus next year. But enthusiasm for such a measure is waning on Capitol Hill, and the plan could die this week. 

As a candidate in the 2000 elections, Mr. Bush pushed broadly popular domestic initiatives such as education spending and a prescription-drug benefit for seniors. And he vowed fiscal responsibility, promising to weed out needless defense spending and protect the mounting Social Security surpluses that many in both parties wanted to reserve for debt reduction. 

But in the wake of Sept. 11 attacks -- as well as the recession -- Mr. Bush's priorities now are topsy-turvy, as yesterday's new submission show: 

-- The administration forecasts budget deficits for at least three years, with red ink for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 totaling $80 billion. 

-- Contrary to campaign pledges to wall off the Social Security trust fund from other uses, Mr. Bush proposes using all the Social Security surpluses -- and then borrowing from the general public beyond that -- to fund the government for the next two years, and to spend well over $100 billion of Social Security funds in each of the following three years. (Social Security benefits won't be affected during this time; the Treasury intends to repay the trust fund for monies used elsewhere.) 

-- A year ago, the administration projected it could slash the amount of federal debt outstanding by $1.6 trillion by 2007. Instead, the figure goes up by $58 billion. 

-- Instead of shrinking the federal government, the number of federal employees would go up this year and next year, reversing a years-long trend. Federal spending as a percentage of the economy is expected to rise to near 20% for the first time since 1996. 

Administration officials were quick to defend their changed fiscal stance with a simple answer: "It's a budget to win a two-front war," White House budget director Mitchell Daniels said. Bush aides have noted that, as a candidate, Mr. Bush said that he would alter his antideficit stance in the event of recession or war -- both of which have come to pass. 

While defense spending would get the biggest increase in two decades, and homeland-security spending would rise to $37.7 billion, many social services would get squeezed. Some job-training programs branded as "underperforming" would face lower budgets, as would some regulatory agencies. A favorite Clinton-era community-development program, the Community Development Financial Institutions fund in the Treasury Department, would see its budget cut to $68 billion from $81 billion. 

In all, eight agencies would take actual cuts or receive increases of 1% or less in discretionary spending, including the politically sensitive departments of Agriculture and Labor, as well as the Army Corps of Engineers. 

In a further sign of how far its priorities have shifted, the tax-cutting Bush administration even quietly proposed increasing a few fees in the name of battling terror, including fees on cruise-vessel passengers and ski resorts and timber operations on federal land. 

Some programs that officials of the Office of Management and Budget had criticized just a few months ago got whopping increases. The government's information-technology spending, for example, would rise to more $50 billion from $45 billion, a sharp reversal from last year's budget request, which all but ignored both areas. 

Among the biggest winners is the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program, a multiagency effort led by the White House's Office of Science and Technology Policy, whose funding increased 3% to $1.9 billion. The budget also proposes $679 million for the White House's National Nanotechnology Initiative, which supports research devoted to creating tiny but powerful computers, a 17% percent increase. And the White House is seeking to boost the budget for the National Science Foundation by nearly $250 million, from $4.79 billion to $5.03 billion. 

All told, the White House is planning to devote $57 billion to science and technology efforts, a record high that represents a sharp 9% increase over last year. The spending accounts for almost half of the $111.8 billion in new federal R&D funds, which was up 8% from the 2002 budget. Much of the increase is being portrayed as a way to shore up homeland security. 

While the bulk of the spending battles will be fought out over the remaining eight months of the fiscal year, the first major fight President Bush faces is over his push to revive an economic-stimulus bill that Congress couldn't pass last year. 

In hopes of reaching a compromise with Democrats, Mr. Bush put forward a set of broad principles that emphasized help for individuals, particularly lower-income workers. His guidelines included speeding up parts of last spring's tax-cut bill; giving tax refunds similar to last year's for low- and moderate-income people; helping displaced workers with extended benefits; reforming the minimum tax on corporations; and creating incentives for businesses to buy new equipment. 

Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle has introduced his own, scaled-back version designed to find common ground between the two parties. But legislators from both parties are cooling to both the White House and Senate Democratic plans. 

Now that the economy appears to be pulling out of recession, many politicians aren't sure the package is needed. Also, the Enron scandal has made them nervous about touching the corporate alternative-minimum tax, or AMT, a centerpiece of the White House and House GOP stimulus plans. Were the tax to be repealed outright, Enron stands to collect $254 million in back AMT payments. Mr. Bush yesterday proposed only to "reform" the tax prospectively. 

Many Democrats, meanwhile, have come to believe that no stimulus is better than whatever package the House and Senate negotiate -- legislation that would almost certainly include long-term tax cuts, either for individuals or corporations. "My hope is we don't get anything but unemployment-benefit increases," said Rep. Jim McDermott (D., Wash), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways and Means committees. 

A series of procedural votes are now scheduled for tomorrow in the Senate on the competing stimulus proposals. The most likely result is that neither side will secure enough votes to pass its proposal, and the issue will die for the year. 

While Congress may be cool toward short-term economic stimulus, legislators are eager to boost farm aid, and Mr. Bush's budget endorses a major increase in agriculture spending over the next decade -- a major issue in some Midwestern states that have become fertile ground for Democrats. 

The administration also proposes to tighten down on what it called both congressional pork-barrel spending and waste in the executive branch. The budget chapter on the Department of Housing and Urban Development notes, for example, that: "Carmel, Indiana, with a poverty rate of 1% and median household income over $77,000, received $1 million for its parks. On the other hand, Gary, Indiana, with a 26% poverty rate and a median income less than a third of Carmel's, did not receive a project grant." 

Mr. Daniels, the White House budget director, admitted there will be heavy resistance to such proposed cuts on Capitol Hill, particularly in an election year. He warned that the president would push back hard against excess spending on the domestic side. He noted that Mr. Bush threatened vetoes on three spending bills last year. "It may well come to that this year," Mr. Daniels said. 

Overall, discretionary spending apart from defense and homeland security would increase by only about 2% in 2003. Even including homeland-security needs, overall nondefense spending would increase just 3.2% in 2004 and less than 2% for the next three years. 

Republicans and Democrats alike were distancing themselves from the administration's deficits. Some Republicans and conservative Democrats were discussing a budget resolution that shows government spending in balance for next year. 

"Short-term deficits are acceptable during a war or recession. However, I'm concerned that the president's budget puts us dangerously close to a return to long-term deficit spending," said Democratic Rep. Dennis Moore of Kansas, co-chairman of the so-called Blue Dog Democrats' Budget and Social Security Task Force. 

"Enron's not revealing its true debt, and the U.S. government is not revealing its true debt," said Democratic Sen. Kent Conrad of North Dakota, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. 

In fact, the current budget plans don't include costs from some expensive proposals for reforms. While President Bush's budget again proposed Medicare changes, including a prescription-drug benefit, it included nothing for the costlier remaking of Social Security. Its 10-year cost has been estimated at $1 trillion -- about the amount of the surplus the White House projects will exist during the next decade. 

It also doesn't include the cost to fix the individual alternative-minimum tax, which will trap as many as 40 million taxpayers during the next decade. That fix could exceed $300 billion. 

The administration's total tax package would cut taxes by about $591 billion over 10 years, although some Democrats said that figure understated the amount -- for example, by leaving out some tax-break extensions that would be effective in 2002. 

--- 

Journal Link: Columnist Tom Herman looks at the new tax proposals in the president's budget and explains what they mean to you, plus see highlights of the budget, in the Online Journal at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 


---
              Is Stimulus Still Possible?
  President Bush and congressional leaders say they still want a
stimulus package, though many lawmakers are having second thoughts.
Here's what a package would likely include:
  The Emerging Senate Consensus
  -- $300 rebate checks (one-year cost: $14 billion)
  -- Two-year 30% depreciation bonus (two-year cost: $77 billion)
  -- State Medicaid assistance (one-year cost: $5 billion)
  -- Extended unemployment benefits (one-year cost: $8 billion)
  -- Increase in small-business expensing limits, to $40,000 from
$25,000
  Sticking points
  -- Bush and Republicans still want: Acceleration of individual-tax
rate cuts; changing the corporate alternative-minimum tax.
  -- Democrats still want:Subsidies to help unemployed people to buy
health coverage


Document j000000020020205dy250006z


More Like This

 Article 218 *******************    



E-Commerce (A Special Report): Consumer's Guide --- Inspired Choice: For many would-be artists, the Web is their Muse 

By Alexandra Kaptik 
1,785 words 
11 February 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
R9 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

WHEN WILLIAM KRETZ, a software engineer from Arlington, Texas, decided to begin writing fiction as a hobby, he headed for that old favorite haven of would-be artists: the coffeehouse. But his destination wasn't some smoky beat refuge or even a glossy Starbucks. Instead, it was a Web site called Coffeehouse for Writers. 

The site is one of several online rallying points for budding authors, offering homespun free advice as well as some how-to courses that charge fees. For the 29-year-old Mr. Kretz -- who was struggling to write a first-person fictional account of the inner life of a problem-ridden superhero -- the big draw was that other denizens of the site kept prodding him to improve his writing while pushing him not to give up. 

"I would never have thought I could do it without their encouragement," says Mr. Kretz. When he posted his first chapter on a message board sponsored by the site, www.coffeehouseforwriters.com, he expected rave reviews but didn't get them. "I was stunned -- I really thought my work was nearly perfect," he says. But the reaction of the writers convinced him that his first draft was "a literary piece of garbage" with far too many unnecessary words. 

To help him along, one writer took on the task of nitpicking his entire work, one chapter at a time. "By chapter nine, I learned how to reword sentences on my own," says Mr. Kretz, who is currently submitting his first short story to a magazine. 

So it goes as more aspiring artists, writers and musicians turn to the Internet to spark their creativity, to nurture their imagination, to goad themselves to greatness. In the tangible world, finding one's muse is often a matter of rare luck. But the Web can be a muse itself, allowing far-flung people to share ideas conveniently and instantly -- and at the very moment they feel most stumped or discouraged. 

Got writer's block? So do a lot of other Hemingway hopefuls. Need a rhyme for a song lyric? You are not alone. Whether you are looking for a list of grammatical misdeeds to avoid, or just need a pat on the back to fend off loneliness and help you keep going, there are sites out there promising to help. And people from all walks of life are using these online resources to revive a dormant talent or try something new. 

Some of the sites make money by evaluating submissions, offering workshops or selling ads. Others are run by people who do it as a labor of love; they are looking for inspiration themselves or just want to inspire others. 

The Coffeehouse falls somewhere in between. It charges fees for some of its online offerings, from a $25 weekend workshop to a $225 three-month course called "Writing Fiction 101." These workshops are conducted solely by e-mail, usually with at most nine students, who get writing tips and at least two assignments a week from a "facilitator." Karen Hertzberg of Oconomowoc, Wis., who started the Coffeehouse in 1999, says that the site "may not be raking in all kinds of money, but it is financially sound and not in debt -- a rather amazing feat in this unstable dot-com economy." She says that her real motivation in launching the Web site was to share what she has learned about the craft "and allow others to do the same." 

Whatever the motives, the sites are a godsend for many. Take Scott R. Taylor, the 52-year-old owner of a small thermoplastics-manufacturing business in Bartlesville, Okla. He was looking for more fulfillment than he could get from his doctorate in organic chemistry. So he resumed his passion for songwriting, which was born in his youth when he sang in church and school choirs. 

Mr. Taylor began writing songs again seven years ago, and the Internet has been invaluable. For starters, he says, the Net is an "incredible source of information." He also uses message boards to get critiques and encouragement from other musicians. "It's a whole new medium for letting people hear complete songs . . . lyrics and music," Mr. Taylor says. He even wrote one song in collaboration with a person he met on a music site, Just Plain Folks. 

Mr. Taylor now dashes off at least a dozen songs a year. Most are in the country-music vein, such as his barstool lament with the refrain, "I'm just two six-packs from lovin' you." At one point he assembled a full compact disk ("Dreamin' I'm a Cowboy") and offers it for sale online. 

Among the various Web sites aimed at songwriters, Mr. Taylor favors Just Plain Folks (www.jpfolks.com/home.html) for its discussion forums and songwriting-collaboration chats. He'll visit the site of musician Irene Jackson (www.irenejackson.com) to dole out advice and get some for himself on the live songwriting chats she hosts. And he sometimes turns to the site called Songwriting Education Resource (www.craftofsongwriting.com), where a "writer's room" coaches would-be songwriters on how to sell their work. On a more humble scale, there's the site www.rhymezone.com, which provides rhyming words for stumped lyricists. 

For many writers, all the muse they need can be found in the most-common online tool: the search engine. "The Internet is a tremendous research tool," says David Lemberg, a 52-year-old chiropractor in New York. He has been working on a novel and screenplay about healing ethnic hatred in the Middle East. "I've never traveled in the Middle East," Mr. Lemberg says, but "whenever I need any bit of information that's not in my head, I use the Copernic search engine and, boom -- I find exactly what I'm looking for." 

A different search engine, Google, is the major muse of Roger A. Wehage, a 58-year-old engineer from Dunlap, Ill., who also writes fiction. "I've been writing technical junk ever since college -- thousands of mathematical equations, stuff you'd fall asleep reading in a minute," Mr. Wehage says. But when it's time to nail down the technical twists in a plotline, he turns to the Web. 

One time, for example, "I was researching a story involving highly intelligent crawling and flying robots the size of sugar ants and fruit flies," he recalls. Mr. Wehage scoured dozens of Web sites to learn what he could easily absorb on "nanotechnology, molecular biology, robot theory; you name it. . . . I looked up hundreds of references on the things that make ants and flies do all the things their tiny little bodies do. And I let my imagination run wild. It's amazing, I tell you. I don't have to be an expert in any of these areas to write great fiction. I just need enough knowledge so what I write is credible." 

Before he tried his hand at fiction, Mr. Wehage says, he used to watch television for hours on end -- a habit he has since dropped. "Cutting out television has given me more time to spend on the Internet," he says. 

Other authors find inspiration at sites geared specifically to their craft. Among these, one of the most comprehensive is Writer's Write (www.writerswrite.com). It has links to reference resources including dictionaries, encyclopedias, government agencies and science and health sites that writers might want to visit. There is information on writers' conferences, job listings and media-industry news. There's also a monthly feature called Internet Writing Journal, a free online magazine that interviews established novelists, screenwriters and journalists to glean advice on how to improve writing skills. In one recent issue, Lawrence Block, author of the books "Hope to Die" and "Hit List," offered guidance to new writers on how to create realistic dialogue for characters. 

People who run Web communities say there is a clear need to bring artists together online. "I think many songwriters feel very isolated. They wonder if there's anyone else out there doing what they do," says Jodi Krangle, Toronto, who in 1995 began Muse's Muse -- a site dedicated to songwriting. It's a place "for songwriters to get their lyrics critiqued and a meeting place for people to get together, talk over issues and even do a little co-writing," she says. The Web site (www.musesmuse.com) has message boards and live chats as well as listings about festivals, showcases and conferences; songwriting classifieds for bands looking for fresh music or new singers; publishing tips; staff-written articles and Muse Radio shows, which are broadcast on the Internet, promoting independent songwriters and their work. To make money, the site accepts advertising for musician directories, instrument accessories and recording software. 

Taking a different tack, Mary Ann Halpin uses her Web site (www.maryannhalpin.com) to reach out to burned-out professionals. A photographer in Los Angeles, she describes herself as the muse of creativity -- it's even printed on her business cards. Ms. Halpin spends part of the year 80 miles north of the city, offering in-person creative-renewal seminars in Pine Mountain Club, Calif. She set up the seminars after finishing a photography book left her depressed and feeling worn-out four years ago. "Creativity shouldn't be forced," she says. "It should flow like a river." 

--- 

Ms. Kaptik is an editor for The Wall Street Journal Online in New York. 


---
            Clicking on Your Potential
  A sampling of sites to awaken your creative side
  Muse's Muse
  www.musesmuse.com
  Features discussion forums, daily updated articles and resource links
  PianoNanny.com
  www.pianonanny.com
  A free service for piano instruction at all levels
  MusicStaff.com
  www.musicstaff.com
  A directory of over 7,000 music teachers
  All Music Guide
  www.allmusic.com
  Wide-ranging database of music styles, information and terminology
  SongScope.com
  www.songscope.com
  Independent songwriter catalog
  Wet Canvas
  www.wetcanvas.com
  Community-oriented site for artists featuring message boards, chats
and interactive projects for painters, sculptors and illustrators
  FotoForum
  www.fotoforum.com
  Discussions and resources for photographers
  ArtistResource
  www.artistresource.org
  Resources links, tips on techniques and San Francisco Bay Area-based
classes and lectures
  Writers Write
  www.writerswrite.com
  Comprehensive site offering the Internet Writing Journal magazine,
research tools, links to writing seminars, organizations and contests
  WritersNet
  www.writers.net
  Links to writers, editors and writing resources
  Coffeehouse for Writers
  www.coffeehouseforwriters.com
  Provides community forum for critiques, online workshops and resources
  Poetry Society of America
  www.poetrysociety.org
  Resources, reviews and events


Document j000000020020211dy2b0000h


More Like This

 Article 219 *******************    



Small-Stock Focus: Overture Services, JMAR Surge As Small Caps Post a Slight Gain 

By Larry Bauman 
Dow Jones Newswires 
810 words 
13 February 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
C8 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Small-capitalization stocks inched higher in thin trading, extending their winning streak to three straight sessions. 

The overall Nasdaq market, however, fell moderately on the weakness of technology and telecommunications stocks. 

Concerns about accounting irregularities, which have weighed on the stock market for the past week, have started to abate. But traders said that while that relieved some of the downward pressure on stocks, investors were hard-pressed to find a compelling reason to be aggressive buyers. 

The Russell 2000 index of small-capitalization stocks rose 0.69 point, or 0.15%, to 472.01, and the Nasdaq Composite Index, at 1834.21, fell 12.45 points, or 0.67%. 

"What we need is clarity on the economy," said Jeff Petherick, portfolio manager at NorthPointe Capital. Until there is evidence that the economy has started to recover from recession, he said, the stock market "will be in a state of funk." 

Overture Services, a Pasadena, Calif., online search engine formerly known as GoTo.com, leapt $5.91, or 27%, to 27.66. The company -- whose stock had been hurt by fears about its ability to renew contracts -- announced it reached a deal with Microsoft Corp.'s MSN network to provide paid search listings. Goldman Sachs added the stock to its recommended list, upgrading it from market outperformer. 

JMAR Technologies jumped 54 cents, or 20%, to 3.28. The San Diego provider of precision micro- and nanotechnology products said that its JMAR Research unit was awarded an Army contract valued at as much as $34.5 million. The contract is for the company's one-nanometer point source X-ray lithography system to produce high-performance semiconductor integrated circuits. 

Glenayre Technologies climbed 34 cents, or 16%, to 2.44, following Monday's 14% gain. The Charlotte, N.C., telecommunications-equipment company reported fourth-quarter break-even results, exceeding analysts' projections. The company said that it still expects to report a first-quarter loss of one to three cents a share, but that it expects to achieve "sustained profitability" in the third quarter, which it said is "a quarter ahead of current expectations." 

NetScreen Technologies gained 2.15, or 13%, to 18.50. Wachovia Securities raised its rating on the Sunnyvale, Calif., provider of Internet security systems and appliances to strong buy from buy. 

United Surgical Partners International, a Dallas operator of surgical facilities, rose 2.10, or 12%, to 19.95. The company said that it expects 2002 earnings of 52 cents to 55 cents a share, compared with analysts' forecasts of a 50-cent-a-share profit. United Surgical, which went public in June, hasn't released 2001 results yet. 

Pegasus Solutions added 1.08, or 7.1%, to 16.20. CIBC World Markets raised its rating on the Dallas provider of hotel reservation transaction-processing services to strong buy from buy. 

Borland Software was up 59 cents, or 4.3%, to 14.39. The Scotts Valley, Calif., software-development-products company reaffirmed the first-quarter and full-year 2002 guidance it provided in late January. The company said that it reiterated its forecasts because the stock fell 17% Monday, and that it couldn't account for the stock's weakness. 

Aeroflex, a Plainview, N.Y., maker of modules and integrated circuits, tumbled 3.50, or 22%, to 12.40. The company posted quarterly earnings that were down from the year-earlier period on a 21% decline in sales, but which beat analysts' projections. But the company said that its third-quarter profit will fall short of expectations. 

Immersion, a San Jose, Calif., developer of sensory technology for video games, fell 92 cents, or 20%, to 3.58. The company reported a fourth-quarter loss of 16 cents a share, compared with its year-earlier 29-cent-a-share loss. J.P. Morgan and Bear Stearns lowered their ratings on the stock. 

LCC International dropped 1.26, or 18%, to 5.74. The McLean, Va., telecommunications engineering and consulting company posted a fourth-quarter loss of four cents a share, compared with its year-earlier 11-cent-a-share profit, with its revenue declining 46%. Raymond James & Associates and Credit Suisse First Boston lowered their ratings on the stock. 

The American depositary receipts of Amarin, a London pharmaceutical company, slid 1.94, or 13.7%, to 12.18 after posting quarterly earnings, excluding items, of 28 cents per ADR, compared with its year-earlier 30-cent-a-share profit. Excluding items, the company's loss was $1.39 per ADR. 

Salix Pharmaceuticals was down 1.56, or 9%, to 15.70. The Raleigh, N.C., drug developer posted a fourth-quarter loss that was much wider than its year-earlier loss, but narrower than analysts had predicted. 

Document j000000020020213dy2d0003s


More Like This

 Article 220 *******************    



Short Interest Highlights 

1,043 words 
28 February 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B12 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


            Nasdaq Short-Selling Highlights
                Largest Short Positions



Rank                    Feb. 15       Jan. 15      Change
 1  Cisco Systems Inc  67,311,503   76,518,740  -9,207,237
 2  Intel Corp         67,129,043   88,522,908 -21,393,865
 3  Nextel Communic    54,915,031   54,160,163     754,868
 4  Metromedia Fiber   54,519,598   37,924,055  16,595,543
 5  JDS Uniphase       52,772,106   52,549,383     222,723
 6  Microsoft Corp     50,120,658   54,279,893  -4,159,235
 7  Level 3 Communicat 49,053,954   56,702,706  -7,648,752
 8  Amazon.com Inc r   48,252,183   58,241,524  -9,989,341
 9  WorldCom Group     47,534,289   41,535,387   5,998,902
10  Comcast Corp A Spl 44,430,928   40,329,496   4,101,432
11  Oracle Corp        41,407,396   37,335,090   4,072,306
12  Dell Computer      38,923,951   41,216,837  -2,292,886
13  Yahoo! Inc r       33,221,162   44,176,438 -10,955,276
14  McLeodUSA Inc      31,977,957   35,432,672  -3,454,715
15  Adelphia Communic  30,187,271   26,460,196   3,727,075
                          Largest Changes
Rank                    Feb. 13     Jan. 15       Change
  INCREASES (in shares)
 1  Metromedia Fiber   54,519,598   37,924,055  16,595,543
 2  Applied Materialsr 30,115,719   22,507,924   7,607,795
 3  WorldCom-MCI Grp   11,071,636    4,754,660   6,316,976
 4  WorldCom Group     47,534,289   41,535,387   5,998,902
 5  Amgen Inc          23,168,656   17,781,355   5,387,301
 6  KLA-Tencor Corp    16,394,403   11,110,990   5,283,413
 7  Comcast Corp A Spl 44,430,928   40,329,496   4,101,432
 8  Oracle Corp        41,407,396   37,335,090   4,072,306
  DECREASES (in shares)
 1  Intel Corp         67,129,043   88,522,908 -21,393,865
 2  Adelphia Business   2,964,936   14,896,571 -11,931,635
 3  Yahoo! Inc r       33,221,162   44,176,438 -10,955,276
 4  Amazon.com Inc r   48,252,183   58,241,524  -9,989,341
 5  Cisco Systems Inc  67,311,503   76,518,740  -9,207,237
 6  Level 3 Communicat 49,053,954   56,702,706  -7,648,752
 7  Sun Microsystems   22,688,186   29,941,704  -7,253,518
 8  Verisign Inc r     16,147,055   23,280,104  -7,133,049
             Largest Short Interest Ratios
  The short interest ratio is the number of days it would take to cover
the short interest if trading continued at the average daily volume for
the month.
                        Feb. 13     Avg Dly     Days to
                       Short Int     Vol-a      Cover
 1  Havas AdvertisingADS 1,781,259    14,243      125
 2  Nucentrix Brdband      260,139     2,403      108
 3  Spherix Inc          1,042,216    10,879       96
 4  FPIC Insurance       2,953,467    31,717       93
 5  ML S&P500 MITTS 08     968,046    10,882       89
 6  Research Frontrs     1,683,955    30,292       56
 7  Sports Resorts Int'l 1,222,260    23,895       51
 8  ParkerVision Inc     1,590,377    32,325       49
 9  BriteSmile Inc       4,145,502    95,018       44
10  Trans World Enter    2,813,086    68,353       41
11  Advanta Corp         1,307,123    34,879       37
12  Granite Broadcstg    1,091,567    29,913       36
13  Cell Pathways        3,763,831   103,658       36
14  Northfield Labs      1,280,532    36,019       36
15  Terra Networks       8,524,962   242,866       35
16  Sorrento Networks    4,376,083   129,342       34
17  Polymedica Corp      6,455,990   189,348       34
18  TLC Laser Eye Cent   1,108,275    32,657       34
19  Aware Inc            4,026,481   120,663       33
20  Abiomed Inc          3,915,202   121,498       32
21  Zixit Corp           6,071,361   188,560       32
22  SBS Broadcasting     1,026,058    32,802       31
23  Macrochem Corp.      2,088,056    67,652       31
24  Wave Systems         3,179,883   103,565       31
25  AstroPower Inc       4,061,981   134,559       30
  a-Includes securities with average daily volume of 20,000 shares or
more. n-New. r-Revised.
  Issues that split in the latest month are excluded. The largest
percentage increase and decrease sections are limited to issues with
previously established short provisions in both months.
                  Largest % Increases
 Rank                     Feb. 13     Jan. 15         %
 1  Genesys SA           481,311      46,480       935.5
 2  Com21 Inc            214,404      28,425       654.3
 3  QMed Inc             213,000      29,249       628.2
 4  Northwest BioThera   362,025      52,528       589.2
 5  Matrix Pharmaceut    785,467     139,701       462.2
 6  Durban Roode Deep    575,070     102,630       460.3
 7  Genus Inc          1,273,554     270,376       371.0
 8  SBS Technologies     505,106     132,133       282.3
 9  Boston Communicat  1,219,785     324,045       276.4
10  AMERIGROUP Corp      354,487     103,034       244.0
11  Nanophase Technol    295,342      86,671       240.8
12  Phoenix Technol      761,216     230,376       230.4
13  McGrath RentCorp     521,344     163,087       219.7
14  aaiPharma Inc        265,745      87,758       202.8
15  AT&T Canada        2,735,234     907,495       201.4
16  IDX Systems          333,490     111,181       200.0
                  Largest % Decreases
 Rank                        Feb. 13   Jan. 15           %
 1  Marketing Svcs Grp       369      173,022        -99.8
 2  Southwall Technol      1,892      401,737        -99.5
 3  Elcom Int'l           17,031      497,879        -96.6
 4  Telesystem Intl       11,301      296,550        -96.2
 5  Medicalogic Med       73,583      698,475        -89.5
 6  Partner Communic      25,923      213,950        -87.9
 7  Optical Communic      50,103      362,624        -86.2
 8  F.N.B. Corp-FL       118,872        6,759        -81.6
 9  ThermoGenesis        112,656      570,793        -80.3
10  Adelphia Business  2,964,936   14,896,571        -80.1
11  Dendreon Corp        353,114    1,565,701        -77.4
12  QuadraMed Corp       207,672      877,687        -76.3
13  Cardiac Science      182,846      712,470        -74.3
14  Ashford.com Inc       76,050      288,220        -73.6
15Old Natl Bncp          181,518      612,742        -70.4


Document j000000020020228dy2s00036


More Like This

 Article 221 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANO DEVICES THAT ARE ON SALE NOW 

By Otis Port Edited by Catherine Arnst 
264 words 
18 March 2002
BusinessWeek 
93 
Number 3774 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Nano-this and Nano-that: Nano prefixes seem destined to become as common as dot-com suffixes. While many startups are only talking about building devices with nanometer-scale elements--100 to 1,000 times thinner than a human hair--one is now selling actual products. NanoOpto in Somerset, N.J., has just unveiled a trio of optical components for use in fiber-optic networks. 

NanoOpto's components are designed to polarize, split, and recombine the beams of laser light flowing through optical fibers. But they don't look like any lens or optical prism you've ever seen. Under a microscope, they could be waffles for hungry microbes. The rectangular shapes rising from the grid are only about 100 nanometers wide, or less than the wavelengths of laser light that they process. That's important, says NanoOpto Chairman Stephen Y. Chou, who's also a Princeton University professor, because sub-wavelength optical elements don't operate on the same principles as macro-size optics. So they don't have to be aligned as precisely as conventional devices. Chou expects this to create major savings for companies that build fiber-optic equipment. 

How does NanoOpto make its teensy waffles? With a miniature waffle iron. Chou developed a method that essentially molds the pattern on a wafer four inches across, one wafer per minute, which then gets cut into thousands of components. Soon, the company will begin producing multi-tier waffles so one component can perform multiple functions. 

Document bw00000020020314dy3i0000q


More Like This

 Article 222 *******************    



The Property Report 

Plots & Ploys 

By Peter Grant 
821 words 
20 March 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B8 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[What's Brewing in the Real Estate Market] 

Paramount Price 

A GERMAN investment company that has a history of paying top dollar for Manhattan office property has beaten a crowded field of competitors to win the bidding for the office tower at 745 Fifth Ave., people with knowledge of the deal say. 

Paramount Group, the investment arm of Germany's Otto family, has agreed to pay more than $270 million for the 500,000-square-foot building, more than $10 million over what experts thought the property would fetch. At that price, the property's annual cash return amounts to just below 7.5%, people say. The deal is a further sign that the market for midtown Manhattan property is one of the hottest in the country. 

Paramount has been an active buyer of Manhattan property since the 1970s, during both booms and busts. In 1998, Paramount paid one of the highest prices ever for a New York office building, shelling out $283 million, or $525 a square foot, for 712 Fifth Ave. 

Officials with Paramount and Goldman Sachs Group, which is representing the seller of 745 Fifth, Rodamco N.A., declined to comment. 

Vacant Look 

THE WIDESPREAD belief that the recession is over has brought little joy to the office leasing market. Many analysts are predicting the vacancy rate will continue to rise for the rest of this year, with little improvement next year. Steve Sakwa of Merrill Lynch, for example, predicts the rate will top out around 16.5% by year end, just 2.6 percentage points lower than the peak of the last recession. "We don't think market conditions are going to get a lot better until 2004 at the earliest," says Mr. Sakwa. 

Why the gloomy forecast? Demand for office space follows employment growth, and many economists don't think there is going to be much of that for at least a year. Economy.com Inc., a business consulting firm, projects slight job growth beginning in the third quarter of this year. "But we really don't get cooking until the middle of 2003," says Craig Thomas, a senior economist with the firm. 

New supply also is a problem. About 84 million square feet of new space was in the pipeline at the end of last year and will be delivered in 2002 and 2003, according to Merrill Lynch. Though that is down about 40% from space on the way at the end of 2000, it still represents a 2.8% increase in the nation's inventory at a time of anemic demand. 

There is one encouraging statistic, though: These days an average office worker occupies 180 square feet, down from 210 square feet in 1991, says Stuart Seeley, of UBS Warburg. That means there is little space in existing offices to put new workers when hiring begins. "We're already stacked up like cordwood," he says. "The spring-back in demand for space is likely to be a hair more robust." 

NASA Plan Grounded 

THE GLUT of office space in Silicon Valley is putting a crimp in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's dream of developing a sprawling research and education complex on part of Moffett Field, a former naval air station in the San Francisco Bay area. 

The centerpiece of the complex is the proposed Carl Sagan Center for the Study of Life in the Cosmos, a 110,000-square-foot laboratory where government, private-sector and university scientists would study such subjects as astrobiology and nanotechnology. This research would be used in the search for life by robotic space missions. 

But NASA needs the private sector to bankroll the $41 million development. The agency had been hoping to persuade a Silicon Valley company to do this by giving it, in return, development rights to 20 acres adjoining the site. But this incentive has lost its luster because of the millions of square feet of empty space on the market. "Office space out here is cheap and plentiful," says Mike Marlaire, assistant development director for NASA Research Park. 

Mr. Marlaire says NASA is still hopeful that it will be able to cut a deal with a company that will enable it to open the Carl Sagan Center in two or three years. "Anyone who knows what's planned out here realizes it's a gold mine," he says. 

Building Block 

The Orlando, Fla., office market, where the vacancy rate rose to 17.7% at the end of 2001 from 12.3% a year earlier, is about to get some bad news from Siemens Westinghouse Power Corp. The company has hired Alter Group, of Chicago, to build it a second building in an office park near the University of Central Florida, this one 226,000 square feet. Siemens will vacate leased space when it moves into the new building, people involved in the project say. 

Document j000000020020320dy3k0001t


More Like This

 Article 223 *******************    



Departments 

Forbes.com Contents 

433 words 
1 April 2002
Forbes Magazine 
14 
Volume 169; Issue 08 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

News and analysis from FORBES; latest business, technology and markets headlines from Reuters. 

Daily News & Commentary 

News and Alerts by E-Mail 

Free daily and weekly briefings. New: Technology Report and Investment Gurus. 

People Tracker 

E-mailed alerts keep you current on executives you need to watch. 

Quotes & ResearchPrices, earnings and conference-call calendar; portfolio trackers and many other investing tools. 

Best of The WebNew: Free download onto PDAs for FORBES Best of The Web's top picks in over 150 categories. 

Premium ServicesInvesting. 

Subscribe to desktop research and tracking services. 

Business. 

Search the Web's largest database of business and IT white papersand service providers. 

Lifestyle. Book travel and find cars, real estate and art for sale. 

Forbes. 

Bookstore and more. 

The Shop@Forbes. Now featuring FORBES Signature Series wine. 

Investment NewslettersNow Comes Nanotech

James W. MichaelsDuring four decades as editor of FORBES magazine, I interpreted the business implications of three life-transforming new technologies: TV, computers and the Internet. I believe nanotechnology, which operates on a scale 1/75,000th the size of a human hair, has implications for businesspeople and investors as great as that of the three prior breakthroughs. Drawing on the resources of Joshua Wolfe, a scientist turned financier, we have launched the monthly Forbes/Wolfe Nanotech Report on this significant new technology. 

Lifestyle 

The World's Most Expensive HotelsChristina ValhouliWhat will $25,000 get you these days? A modest down payment on an apartment? A year of college tuition? How about a single night in a hotel? That is what it costs to stay in the Bridge Suite at the Atlantis resort in the Bahamas, which is the most expensive hotel we could track down. But en route we found plenty of places--from Cannes to San Francisco--that charge upward of $5,000 a night. 

Forbes Magazine 

Killer TaxesFrom Lipper and Forbes.com, the alternative minimum tax bite on over 800 funds. See our Personal Finance section for tax tips from FORBES' tax experts. 

Aggressive AccountingWhich companies wave a magic wand over their books to conjure up more "profits"? Find out more online. 

Makers & BreakersWatch online clips from our Forbes on Fox TV show and go online to check the prices of the stocks featured in its companion column in this issue. 

Search Our Online ArchiveInstant access to past issues. 

Forbes Global 

Happy CamperFor 20 years Korea's Youn Jae Lee and Northpole, his camping-gear firm, prospered. Then came the Asian monetary crisis. Rescuer Warburg Pincus gained controlling interest in Northpole, but helped Lee revitalize the company. 

Document fb00000020020318dy410005m


More Like This

 Article 224 *******************    



Boom Town: Little White Ones You Might Hear From the Techies 

By Kara Swisher 
873 words 
1 April 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

The weather has turned springlike earlier than usual this year in Silicon Valley, bolstering a feeling of new promise that has been creeping into the tech industry. 

The word in the press, at industry parties (they have returned!) and conferences (they never went away) is that Silicon Valley is back, and ready to roar again. Earnings warnings are down, venture funding is up, layoffs and bankruptcies have slowed. 

Only 18 Internet companies were shuttered in February, says Webmergers.com, which tallies dot-com shutdowns. That's "the lowest casualty rate since August 2000," it says, and is part of a decline in failures since a peak in May last year. 

But if Silicon Valley is back, so are its rationalizations about what's really going on here. Several years ago, at the start of the boom in early 1998, I wrote about the "Lies of Silicon Valley," that listed favorites such as "It's not about the money" and "We sell solutions, not products." Those seemingly harmless circumlocutions set the tone for some poor choices that followed. 

Now, along with the feeling of new promise, the Valley offers some new mendacities as well. Among them: 

Failure has been a good thing. This has become an overriding theme among the digerati since the downturn began in the spring of 2000. You can't finish your seared sea bass in a local restaurant without some venture capitalist or entrepreneur or banker telling you that they have learned a lot more from their loser investments than from any success. 

That's all well and good, as long as you were not the one getting burned. Most of the big players here, in fact, cashed out early and often, leaving too many others, mostly individual investors and lesser employees, out of luck. "Failure is humbling, character-building and can teach you, but it is definitely not good," says Julie Wainwright, former CEO of Pets.com, one of the first high-profile dot-com failures. 

It's true that experimentation is at the heart of the Silicon Valley experience, but in the last cycle those with the most responsibility didn't pay the price for the risks associated with innovation. 

We've learned our lessons. This gem goes hand in hand with the delusion in Silicon Valley that failure is always a virtue. Most here -- often the most egregious of offenders -- will give sincere speeches about the ways in which they will change and the things that will be different from here on out, with a focus on the bottom line, mature management and cautious growth. In a running joke of his, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos says he now spells profit with an "f" rather than as "prophet." 

Let's hope that will bring the sector to the Promised Land, although recent hype over the world-changing virtues of high-speed wireless and nanotechnology (a genre that includes microscopic machines and such) sounds suspiciously familiar. 

The next hot thing is. . . . Silicon Valley never loses its hunger for what's coming next. A big fight is poised to break out this spring over small devices that e-mail and phone at the same time. A range of products will be released, and they are all certainly intriguing. But their utility is still unproven. 

What should be hot is making all that has been dreamed up over the past several years work well for consumers, giving them confidence to use the new technologies more. 

Tech is poised to soar. That's the feeling here and on Wall Street, as stocks of many major tech companies rebounded nicely from lows of last year. It's a good thing, but many experts still think growth is going to be a lot slower through the year than in past years. 

In a report in February, Morgan Stanley, which surveyed tech trends and spending patterns of 225 chief information officers, estimated that 2002 information technology growth will be flat at about 2%, better than 2001's estimated 1.5%, but no where near the 12% of 2000. 

According to the report, new projects for the year are likely to be smaller in size and scope, with application integration and security software leading the list of priorities. Not too exciting, but much needed. 

"Tech spending will lag the recovery in capital spending and the economy in general," says Chuck Phillips, the tech analyst at Morgan Stanley who wrote the report. But "generally, we have a slightly more positive bias than we did three months ago." 

Silicon Valley is back. Um, it never went away. That made the spate of woe-is-me wailings of 2001 almost as unbearable to listen to as the hype of 1999. The endless self-promoting billboards are gone, along with the greedheads. Good and steady entrepreneurs and promising young companies can ply their talents in a much saner environment. 

That's a forecast we call can live with. 

--- 

Has Silicon Valley really learned its lesson from the downturn or is it still fooling itself about its prospects? Write me at kara.swisher@wsj.com and come see the online debate Friday at WSJ.com/BoomTown. 

Document j000000020020401dy410000e


More Like This

 Article 225 *******************    



Departments 

Forbes.com Contents 

447 words 
15 April 2002
Forbes Magazine 
16 
Volume 169; Issue 09 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Home Page for the World's Business Leaders 

Daily News & CommentaryNews analysis from FORBES; latest business, technology and market headlines from Reuters. 

News and Alerts by E-Mail 

Free daily and weekly briefings delivered to your in-box.Investment Newsletters 

Picks, pans and charts from the investment gurus. New: the Forbes/Wolfe Nanotech Report. 

Handheld Edition 

Free downloads onto PDAs. New: The Forbes 500s--America's largest companies. 

Premium Services 

Investing. 

Subscribe to desktop research and tracking services. 

Business. 

Search the Web's largest source of business and IT white papers and service providers. 

Lifestyle. 

Book travel and find cars, real estate and art for sale. 

Forbes. 

Bookstore, conferences, collection and Shop@Forbes, featuring FORBES Signature Series wine. 

Business The Bucks of Summer 

Davide Dukcevich 

Another April, and new hope for baseball fans that their team can win it all. Forbes.com's special report, the Business of Baseball, checks the game's financial box score. Think today's top players are richer than Croesus? Our decade-by-decade time line of stars' salaries reveals them to be falling behind chief executives'--though both groups tend to get their biggest paychecks after their careers have peaked. 

We name the only baseball club owner to make the starting roster of our first pro-sports All Star Owners team. And for memorabilia buffs, we scout the rally potential of rookie cards of yesteryear. 

LifestyleThe V-12 Coming to a VW Near You 

Michael Frank 

On page 286 of this issue, we explain why the technology in the new V-12 engine powering the world's most expensive sports car may end up in Volkswagens. What does it feel like to drive such raw power? Forbes.com has taken the first test drive (on American soil) of the new Lamborghini Murcielago. Read our exclusive review of the car and its engine. 

Forbes MagazineThe Forbes 500s 

Online only: expanded tables, interactive time lines, downloadable PDA version and tear sheets for every company. And you break the tie between GE and Citigroup: Vote for your number one in our online poll. 

Your Views--and Why Not? 

Join the online discussion and chip in your ideas to the new column by Yale professors Barry Nalebuff and Ian Ayres. 

Makers & Breakers 

Watch clips from our Forbes on Fox TV show and read its companion column in this issue. 

Forbes GlobalThe A List 

We screen for the world's top firms using standard metrics such as sales growth and return on equity. Then we turn to money managers, analysts and mutual fund heads for advice. What's left: companies that offer both a smart investment and smart management. 

Document fb00000020020506dy4f00001


More Like This

 Article 226 *******************    



Business Week International Editions: Corrections & Clarifications 

``Nanotechnology'' (The Tech Outlook, BusinessWeek 50, Apr. 8) 

40 words 
22 April 2002
BusinessWeek 
7 
Number 3779 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

In ``Nanotechnology'' (The Tech Outlook, BusinessWeek 50, Apr. 8), Mitsubishi's $100 million nanotech venture fund is sponsored by Mitsubishi Corp., not Mitsubishi Electric Corp. 

Document bw00000020020418dy4m0000b


More Like This

 Article 227 *******************    



Corrections & Clarifications 

``Nanotechnology'' (The Tech Outlook, BusinessWeek 50, Spring, 2002) 

36 words 
22 April 2002
BusinessWeek 
20 
Number 3779 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

In ``Nanotechnology'' (The Tech Outlook, BusinessWeek 50, Spring, 2002), Mitsubishi's $100 million nanotech venture fund is sponsored by Mitsubishi Corp., not Mitsubishi Electric Corp. 

Document bw00000020020418dy4m0000p


More Like This

 Article 228 *******************    



Short Interest Highlights 

2,146 words 
25 April 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
C18 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Largest Short Positions 


Rank                    Apr. 15       Mar. 15      Change



 1  Nextel Communic     79,543,570   72,030,327   7,513,243
 2  Intel Corp          74,613,777   80,023,642  -5,409,865
 3  Cisco Systems Inc   67,633,871   71,210,239  -3,576,368
 4  JDS Uniphase        57,977,610   53,810,030   4,167,580
 5  Microsoft Corp      48,199,526   51,727,851  -3,528,325
 6  Level 3 Communicat  48,051,823   48,686,285    -634,462
 7  Adelphia Communic   47,466,399   30,878,268  16,588,131
 8  Comcast Corp A Spl  46,071,719   49,529,778  -3,458,059
 9  WorldCom Group      45,053,693   42,949,517   2,104,176
10  Oracle Corp         44,127,851   44,073,756      54,095
11  Dell Computer       43,160,568   42,884,788     275,780
12  Amazon.com Inc      41,063,489   43,848,105  -2,784,616
13  Amgen Inc           31,961,055   30,908,267   1,052,788
14  McLeodUSA Inc       31,298,126   31,957,733    -659,607
15  Ciena Corp          30,240,791   26,526,449   3,714,342
16  Charter Communic    27,842,029   27,848,300      -6,271
17  Yahoo! Inc          27,236,052   27,338,277    -102,225
18  Ericsson (LM) Tel   25,637,677   25,120,930     516,747
19  Sun Microsystems    25,635,035   25,846,737    -211,702
20  Applied Materials   25,510,929   29,078,727  -3,567,798
21  Juniper Networks    25,482,068   29,421,056  -3,938,988
22  Network Appliance   24,922,126   21,518,062   3,404,064
23  EchoStar Comm       24,101,242   23,729,868     371,374
24  BroadVision Inc     22,031,903   22,275,769    -243,866
25  Brocade Communic    20,734,320   19,386,707   1,347,613
26  Finisar Corp        19,773,220   19,097,157     676,063
27  Ariba Inc           19,416,101   20,083,015    -666,914
28  Siebel Systems      18,169,233   20,424,921  -2,255,688
29  Veritas Software    18,008,489   20,264,768  -2,256,279
30  PMC-Sierra Inc      17,891,332   19,531,225  -1,639,893
                            Largest Changes
Rank                    Apr. 15     Mar. 15       Change
  INCREASES (in shares)
 1  Adelphia Communic   47,466,399   30,878,268  16,588,131
 2  WebMD Corp          14,610,432    4,742,993   9,867,439
 3  Nextel Communic     79,543,570   72,030,327   7,513,243
 4  Divine Inc           9,647,064    2,744,852   6,902,212
 5  Gemstar-TV Guide    11,704,186    4,922,703   6,781,483
 6  ESS Technology      12,458,477    5,765,627   6,692,850
 7  USA Networks Inc     8,462,052    4,227,144   4,234,908
 8  JDS Uniphase        57,977,610   53,810,030   4,167,580
 9  Proxim Corp          7,943,853    3,811,733   4,132,120
10  Ciena Corp          30,240,791   26,526,449   3,714,342
11  Emulex Corp         12,928,278    9,434,166   3,494,112
12  Network Appliance   24,922,126   21,518,062   3,404,064
13  CheckFree Corp      10,371,254    7,257,996   3,113,258
14  Allegiance Telcom   12,221,550    9,167,038   3,054,512
15  Aspect Communic      4,728,186    1,893,307   2,834,879
16  Comcast Corp         6,715,080    3,896,693   2,818,387
17  Earthlink Inc        6,811,815    4,016,522   2,795,293
18  WorldCom-MCI Grp    16,878,403   14,098,282   2,780,121
19  Netscreen Technol    4,208,411    1,720,696   2,487,715
20  AT&T Canada          5,533,741    3,291,307   2,242,434
21  02Micro Internat    l2,846,753      713,442   2,133,311
22  Vignette Corp        6,706,945    4,583,288   2,123,657
23  WorldCom Group      45,053,693   42,949,517   2,104,176
24  Ohio Casualty        3,341,820    1,380,877   1,960,943
25  DDI Corp             3,274,875    1,319,837   1,955,038
  DECREASES (in shares)
 1  Metromedia Fiber    13,122,363   46,995,167 -33,872,804
 2  SpectraSite Hldgs    5,434,333   11,059,322  -5,624,989
 3  Intel Corp          74,613,777   80,023,642  -5,409,865
 4  Riverstone Netwrks   5,092,889   10,129,430  -5,036,541
 5  PETsMART Inc         1,915,876    6,884,981  -4,969,105
 6  Concord EFS Inc      9,962,665   14,499,134  -4,536,469
 7  Net.Bank Inc         3,287,242    7,798,624  -4,511,382
 8  Flextronics Intl     9,774,284   14,264,443  -4,490,159
 9  PeopleSoft Inc       8,556,606   12,696,724  -4,140,118
10  Broadcom Corp       17,754,754   21,892,646  -4,137,892
11  Juniper Networks    25,482,068   29,421,056  -3,938,988
12  Tellabs Inc          9,134,088   12,959,881  -3,825,793
13  Applied Micro Cir    8,163,462   11,808,922  -3,645,460
14  Cisco Systems Inc   67,633,871   71,210,239  -3,576,368
15  Applied Materials   25,510,929   29,078,727  -3,567,798
16  Microsoft Corp      48,199,526   51,727,851  -3,528,325
17  Comcast Corp A Spl  46,071,719   49,529,778  -3,458,059
18  Millennium Pharma    9,049,754   12,024,654  -2,974,900
19  CMGI Inc            13,073,328   15,918,249  -2,844,921
20  SmartForce PLC       2,425,011    5,269,746  -2,844,735
21  Qualcomm Inc        15,183,035   17,993,624  -2,810,589
22  Amazon.com Inc      41,063,489   43,848,105  -2,784,616
23  Rational Software    6,223,408    8,916,781  -2,693,373
24  Stellent Inc         4,648,694    7,194,833  -2,546,139
25  Novellus Systems    10,379,127   12,832,195  -2,453,068
               Largest Short Interest Ratios
  The short interest ratio is the number of days it would take to cover
the short interest if trading continued at the average daily volume for
the month.
                          Apr. 15    Avg Dly    Days to
                         Short Int     Vol-a     Cover
 1  Havas AdvertisingADS 1,789,521    18,044      99
 2  Spherix Inc          1,034,329    12,223      85
 3  FPIC Insurance       3,163,665    37,456      84
 4  ParkerVision Inc     1,524,357    19,648      78
 5  ML S&P500 MITTS 08     711,289    10,357      69
 6  Telewest Commun      1,456,650    21,725      67
 7  Research Frontrs     1,698,270    25,304      67
 8  Aware Inc            3,897,762    64,065      61
 9  MemberWorks Inc      2,390,641    45,477      53
10  Riverdeep Group      4,828,704    92,643      52
11  Centennial Comm      1,215,845    25,910      47
12  Sports Resorts Int'l 1,389,559    33,214      42
13  Rofin-Sinar Tech       227,600     5,407      42
14  FalconStor Sftware   5,865,312   145,173      40
15  VaxGen Inc           1,738,791    43,341      40
16  Sangamo Bioscien       908,368    23,421      39
17  Qiagen NV            7,031,032   184,238      38
18  Northfield Labs      1,272,200    34,741      37
19  Pain Therapeutics    1,335,585    36,944      36
20  BriteSmile Inc       6,045,540   168,807      36
21  Universal Display    1,378,883    42,085      33
22  Sonic Foundry        1,447,851    44,154      33
23  Zixit Corp           6,562,814   197,510      33
24  Elizabeth Arden      2,516,745    78,440      32
25  Chromavision Medic     908,555    29,155      31
  a-Includes securities with average daily volume of 20,000 shares or
more. n-new. r-revised.
  Issues that split in the latest month are excluded. The largest
percentage increase and decrease sections are limited to issues with
previously established short positions in both months.
                    Largest % Increases
 Rank                     Apr. 15     Mar. 14         %
 1  Mechanical Dynamic     149,711      260       57,481.2
 2  Sypris Solutions       573,914    1,152       49,718.9
 3  Completel Europe       292,428      763       38,226.1
 4  Rofin-Sinar Tech       227,600    1,294       17,488.9
 5  Alaska Communic        138,142    2,873        4,708.3
 6  Staff Leasing          122,340    3,576        3,321.1
 7  Parthus Technol        543,899   16,048        3,289.2
 8  Vical Inc            1,052,675   33,934        3,002.1
 9  Carlton Communic       339,711   18,586        1,727.8
10  F A O Inc              494,216   30,205        1,536.2
11  Quigley Corp           198,773   12,258        1,521.6
12  Cardima Inc            110,031    7,608        1,346.3
13  Cellegy Pharmact       286,560   22,039        1,200.2
14  ATP Oil & Gas Corp     141,975   15,643          807.6
15  Aksys Ltd            2,148,932  384,951          458.2
16  CRH Plc                188,748   34,705          443.9
17  Dendreon Corp          809,206  166,726          385.4
18  Focal Communicat       237,006   55,081          330.3
19  02Micro Internatl    2,846,753  713,442          299.0
20  Infinity Inc           162,495   42,017          286.7
21  SimpleTech Inc         122,242   31,926          282.9
22  ScanSoft Inc           246,035   69,454          254.2
23  Divine Inc          9,647,064 2,744,852          251.5
24  A.C. Moore Arts        164,140   47,244          247.4
25  Versicor Inc           306,854   91,157          236.6
26  Chordiant Software     967,730  294,421          228.7
27  InterNAP Network     2,328,997  740,474          214.5
28  Odyssey Hlthcare       539,190  172,582          212.4
29  MedCath Corp           596,195  193,168          208.6
30  WebMD Corp         14,610,432 4,742,993          208.0
31  Ciphergen Biosys       236,384   78,869          199.7
32  Intermet Corp          251,053   84,642          196.6
33  CBRL Group Inc       1,542,529  524,288          194.2
34  VCA Antech Inc         613,650  209,998          192.2
35  aaiPharma Inc        1,884,115  644,806          192.2
36  US SEARCH.com          214,700   74,824          186.9
37  Genesee & Wyoming      353,383  126,655          179.0
38  AT&T Latin Amer        193,309   69,908          176.5
39  Extensity Inc          159,991   58,276          174.5
40  Chattem Inc            205,548   75,099          173.7
41  Instinet Group Inc   2,465,476  903,901          172.8
42  DUSA Pharmaceut        182,620   67,872          169.1
                    Largest % Decreases
 Rank                        Apr. 15     Mar. 14       %
 1  Gemplus Int'l              1,132     162,064     -99.3
 2  PrimaCom AG                  798     101,231     -99.2
 3  Bam! Entertainment        21,508     453,910     -95.3
 4  Regus PLC                 12,153     114,721     -89.4
 5  Southside Bncshrs         15,457     115,121     -86.6
 6  Metawave Commun           99,942     687,835     -85.5
 7  PennFed Finl Svc          20,855     135,093     -84.6
 8  Robotic Vision           119,278     760,923     -84.3
 9  Commonwealth Tele        210,226   1,036,109     -79.7
10  Verso Technolog          106,438     416,772     -74.5
11  PETsMART Inc           1,915,876   6,884,981     -72.2
12  Metromedia Fiber      13,122,363  46,995,167     -72.1
13  Aastrom Bioscienc        207,013     714,841     -71.0
14  Stolt Offshore           142,106     464,054     -69.4
15  PLX Technology           191,837     621,250     -69.1
16  SoundView Technol         81,584     245,425     -66.8
17  World Airways             51,135     150,347     -66.0
18  Brio Software Inc        523,456   1,356,160     -61.4
19  GrupoFinGalacia          179,221     443,613     -59.6
20  Net.Bank Inc           3,287,242   7,798,624     -57.8
21  Foamex Int'l Inc         202,587     479,992     -57.8
22  Corel Corp               109,751     255,447     -57.0
23  Cepheid Inc              462,756   1,037,066     -55.4
24  Nanophase Technol        136,552     304,564     -55.2
25  General Magic            491,518   1,074,866     -54.3
26  SmartForce PLC         2,425,011   5,269,746     -54.0
27  Genus Inc                509,307   1,062,467     -52.1
28  Inet Technologies         87,669     182,105     -51.9
29  CoreComm Ltd             917,850   1,893,310     -51.5
30  SpectraSite Hldgs      5,434,333  11,059,322     -50.9
31  Repligen Corp            123,854     251,182     -50.7
32  Riverstone Netwrks     5,092,889  10,129,430     -49.7
33  Akzo Nobel NV             94,251     187,294     -49.7
34  Noven Pharmaceut         307,593     598,154     -48.6
35  Digital River Inc      1,620,811   3,055,614     -47.0
36  JMAR Technologies        420,273     786,555     -46.6
37  Official Payments        160,082     298,166     -46.3
38  Max Re Capital           284,859     530,328     -46.3
39  Alpha Industries       2,121,776   3,916,921     -45.8
40  ECtel Ltd                755,889   1,391,618     -45.7
41  Genaissance Pharm        401,349     736,014     -45.5
42  OTG Software             440,011     801,128     -45.1


Document j000000020020425dy4p00002


More Like This

 Article 229 *******************    



Departments 

Forbes.com Contents 

485 words 
29 April 2002
Forbes Magazine 
14 
Volume 169; Issue 10 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Home Page for the World's Business Leaders 

BusinessPost Your Ideas--And Why Not?Paul Maidment 

A powerful aspect of the Web is that it lets a publication's readers talk back to the editors and to one other. We sensed that would be a great way to tap into a particularly Forbesian kind of ingenuity: simple but unconventional ideas to improve business. Last issue we launched a column--both in print and online--that is designed to promote just that: "Why Not?" by Yale professors Ian Ayres and Barry Nalebuff. They asked you to tell them what's right or wrong with their ideas and to propose your own. Two weeks in, the Why Not? Forum on Forbes.com is well established as a gathering place for original ideas for products and services. The conversation continues. Come join.LifestyleMiami: Hot or Not?Christina Valhouli 

It might have great sunsets and proximity to Latin America, but if Miami wants to attract big companies it has to solve its problems of crime, poor education and outdated infrastructure. Forbes.com reports on a city struggling to shed its image as a neon-lit tourist destination full of cruise ships, drug lords and rap stars. 

Daily News & Commentary 

News analysis from FORBES throughout each business day; plus Reuters business, technology and market news as it breaks. 

News and Alerts by E-mail 

Choose from 22 free daily and weekly e-mail newsletters. 

Quotes & Research 

Prices, earnings, conference-call calendar and company tear sheets. 

Investment Newsletters 

Six Forbes subscription newsletters, including the new Forbes/Wolfe Nanotech Report. 

Forbes Lists 

Download to a PDA a free summary of the Forbes 500s database of America's biggest companies. Or buy detailed versions of all Forbes lists in spreadsheet format. 

Premium Services 

The Shop@Forbes. 

Featuring Forbes Signature Series wine and Forbes Collection products. 

Investing. 

Subscribe to desktop real-time stock-tracking services. 

Business. 

Search the Web's largest source of business white papers. 

Lifestyle. 

Book travel and find cars, real estate and art for sale. 

Forbes MagazineCommander of the Airwaves 

Follow up this issue's cover story using Forbes.com's People Tracker to get e-mailed news updates on FCC Chairman Michael K. Powell. 

Citicorp vs. GE 

Last issue we invited you to go online to break the tie atop the Forbes Super 500. See which corporate behemoth you voted the undisputed number one. 

Makers & Breakers 

Watch clips from our Forbes on Fox TV show and read its companion column in this issue. 

Search Our Archive 

Instant access to past issues. 

Forbes Global 

Life on the High Seas 

We explore the joys and risks of owning a yacht--from a $250,000 motor yacht to the exclusive ships built by the Netherlands' Feadship. Want to feel the brine on your cheeks before you buy? If so, charter the yacht of your dreams. 

Document fb00000020020415dy4t00001


More Like This

 Article 230 *******************    



Big Hopes Surround a Small Idea --- Science of Nanotechnology Is Gaining Enthusiasts, But Funding Is Still Scarce 

By Beth M. Mantz 
Dow Jones Newswires 
1,063 words 
1 May 2002
The Wall Street Journal
B11F 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- During the past year, scientists, entrepreneurs and futurists have barely been able to contain their excitement about nanotechnology. But for all the buzz, this emerging science has yet to attract wide investment from the world of venture capital. 

Nanotechnology isn't an industry. Rather, it is the study and manipulation of matter at a scale measured by nanometers, units so minuscule it would take about 150,000 to span the diameter of a human hair. At this level, these structures take on new properties and could be used to develop products in industries ranging from materials and chemicals to electronics, and from telecommunications to medicine. The scientific promise is so great the federal government's National Science Foundation predicts nanotechnology will represent $1 trillion in goods and services by 2015. 

But the commercial applications of nanotechnology are still too far away for venture capitalists to open their wallets. 

"Up until now, [nanotechnology] has been a number of science projects, not a series of businesses ... and the payoff was five to 10 years off," said Chris Anzalone, partner at Washington, D.C., venture-capital and investment-banking firm Galway Partners and acting chief executive of NanoInk Inc., a start-up that is developing tools to build nanoscale structures one atom at a time. 

Venture capitalists want to invest in a business with products coming down the pike, a near-term expectation of revenue, and return on investment flowing back to limited partners. Only recently have these science projects begun to graduate from the research labs to businesses. 

"We are in the early days of nanotechnology," said Mel Melsheimer, president and chief operating officer of publicly traded venture firm Harris & Harris Group, which has already invested in early-stage nanotechnology companies. "As a VC, we have chosen to move forward, but most VC firms are evaluating and are interested to see success over time." 

That isn't to say investment hasn't found its way into nanotechnology, especially since former President Clinton established the National Nanotechnology Initiative in 1999. The federal government and academic institutions are increasingly loosening the purse strings. In fiscal year 2001, the federal government spent $463.9 million on nanotechnology programs. For fiscal 2002, ending in October, Congress will have appropriated about $604.4 million, which includes National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture programs. 

In his proposed budget for fiscal year 2003, President Bush requested a total allocation of $710 million for federal investment in nanoscale science, engineering, technology, and associated programs. 

Some corporations have invested in nanotechnology. International Business Machines Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., Motorola Inc., Dow Chemical Co., Corning Inc. and 3M Co. each have launched significant nanotech initiatives. 

Venture capitalists have played a relatively small role, although the amount of actual investment from the venture-capital community is hard to track. 

NanoBusiness Alliance says start-up companies received $100 million in funding from corporations, angel investors and venture firms in 1999. A NanoBusiness Alliance report published last year estimates direct venture investment rose to $500 million in 2000 and then jumped to $800 million in 2001. It predicts such funding will reach $1 billion this year and $1.2 billion next year. Currently, corporations are responsible for most funding, but venture firms will take over as the field matures, said Mark Modzelewski, executive director of the organization. 

Meanwhile, VentureOne, which tracks the venture-capital community, disputes these findings, but agrees venture funding is on the rise. According to its research, only four venture-backed nanotechnology companies received a total of $23.9 million in financing in 1999, nine start-ups received a total of $137.4 million in 2000 and 14 got $82.3 million in 2001. Five companies have received $53 million so far this year. 

In the near term, venture capitalists remain cautious. New York private-equity firm Lux Capital is a prime example. Managing partner Josh Wolfe, who is considered a nanotechnology expert, expects nanotechnology will hasten huge changes in technology and business. Yet, to date, his firm hasn't invested in any nanotechnology-based companies. He expects the firm will fund its first nanotechnology company this quarter. 

"Nanotechnology is a wonderful thing. It can harness new properties that don't exist in nature at higher scales, but it is unpredictable," Mr. Wolfe said. 

Venture capitalists want a return on their investment within a fairly short period and few nanotechnology start-ups can deliver, said NanoBusiness's Mr. Modzelewski. Additionally, those companies that could generate products and revenue sooner rather than later are often engaged in materials, powders and plastics, businesses that tend not to attract venture capitalists because of competition with big corporate players. 

Those businesses that are expected to generate the sizable venture-capital returns -- those involved in the applications of nanotechnology -- are still in their relative infancy, said Mr. Modzelewski. They include drawing nanoscale semiconductor chips that could double the speed of computing at half the cost, developing new methods to screen for biological proteins or new drug targets, creating nanoscale drug-delivery systems, engineering "nanobots" that would combat disease at the molecular level, developing molecular electronic devices, and designing nanoscale optical components for telecom gear, to name a few. While some select start-ups involved in applications have secured venture capital, most of these fledgling firms haven't. 

If any one area is reeling in venture capital, it is the nanotechnology "picks and shovels" businesses, those companies developing tools that can pick or move atoms one at a time or devising software for modeling nanotechnology. Others are creating nanomaterials that will form the building blocks for applications in electronics, optics, telecommunications and life sciences. 

Though venture investment to date has been small, venture investors appear to be breaking up into two groups, say observers. One group contains those investors who focus solely on the science and thus enter very early and take on the most risk. 

The other group is more savvy. Appreciating the risk of investing in a science rather than a business, these investors look for a start-up's associations with proven pioneers, such as Nanosys Inc.'s Larry Boch, who has founded more than a dozen companies, many of which have become public companies. 

Document j000000020020501dy510006t


More Like This

 Article 231 *******************    



Technology 

Scientists Say They Have Bonded Viruses, Synthetic Materials --- `Novel' Process by Researchers In Texas Could Be Used To Form New Substances 

By Robert Tomsho 
426 words 
3 May 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B5 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Researchers at the University of Texas, harnessing nature's microscopic building powers, said they have devised a way to use noninfectious viruses to grow a hybrid material that could be used to make semiconductors and various other electronic, magnetic and optical devices. 

Their study, detailed in an article in the journal Science, involved making naturally occurring molecules adhere to minute particles of man-made materials and then self-assemble into whole new structures. Researchers elsewhere said the bonding between organic and inorganic materials is a potentially important advance in the fast-growing field of nanotechnology, which involves the manipulation of atoms and molecules to form new substances. 

"This is a novel approach," said Harold Craighead, a professor of applied and engineering physics at Cornell University, in Ithaca, N.Y. 

Chad Mirkin, director of the Institute of Nanotechnology at Northwestern University, in Evanston, Ill., described the work as "pretty impressive," adding that the Texas researchers had managed to persuade molecules to "do things that Mother Nature hasn't refined." 

Lead researcher Angela Belcher, an assistant professor of chemistry and microchemistry at the University of Texas, in Austin, said the group set out to mimic the processes that nature uses to make substances such as shell or bone. Ms. Belcher said the process used in the study could eventually be used to grow and arrange parts for a variety of devices, displays and sensors. 

In nature, some molecules naturally snap together when exposed to each other. In the study, molecules of the genetically engineered virus were repeatedly exposed to so-called quantum dots, a microscopic substance used in semiconductor manufacturing. In the presence of a chemical solution and a magnetic field, the molecules began bonding to the dots and each other. Multiplying, they eventually assembling themselves into liquid crystal structures several centimeters long. 

Nanotechnology derives its name from a unit of measure called the nanometer, a billion of which make up a meter. 

Predicting that the field could involve more than $1 trillion in goods and services by the year 2015, the federal government plans to invest more than $600 million in related research this year. Dozens of universities and technology concerns have opened related research facilities and competition for scientists in the field is keen. Indeed, in the fall, Ms. Belcher and much of her research team at the University of Texas will move to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge. 

Document j000000020020503dy530000h


More Like This

 Article 232 *******************    



BOOM TOWN: Beware of Valley's New Fad: Nanotechnology

By Lee Gomes 
1,047 words 
6 May 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

THE SILICON VALLEY hype machine is gearing up to sell you a second-hand trend. Be careful, it may prove to be a lemon. 

What's involved is something called "nanotechnology" (more on why it is second-hand in a minute). The field involves ultrasmall devices built molecule-by-molecule, for use in, say, health care or computing or manufacturing. 

Physicists, chemists and other have been working in nanotech for years now, and they've come up with some interesting lab experiments, such as molecules that can act as very primitive computer transistors. Some of this work will no doubt become profitable and socially useful one day. 

But that's not good enough for nano-boosters; for them, nanotechnology is nothing less than the next great Industrial Revolution, right around the corner. Politicians, for example, have lately been rushing to fund nanotech, since the technology, at least as the boosters present it, is not only easy to understand, but also both visionary and remarkably utilitarian. What politician, after all, could resist the idea of some "Fantastic Voyage"-style submarine cruising through his arteries, zapping the cholesterol deposits from all those lobbyist lunches? 

In Silicon Valley, which is more hard up than usual for a new trend, nanotechnology is handily fitting the bill. While it's not quite the Internet boom yet, just give it time. 

"Nanotechnology" has been used in literally 10 times as many press releases this year as in the first half of 1999. A pitch letter for a just-launched newsletter called Nanotechnology Report warns of "a MAMMOTH technological shocker afoot" that is "about to make modern day manufacturing methods virtually obsolete." New companies are putting "nano" in their names at the slightest provocation, and hardly a week goes by without a new nanotechnology conference being announced. 

"Since January, I have been invited to give 50 talks," sighs R. Stanley Williams, head of a nanotech research project at Hewlett-Packard Co. 

This being Silicon Valley, venture capitalists are flocking in. The best known is Steve Jurvetson, of Draper, Fisher Jurvetson in Redwood City, Calif. Mr. Jurvetson, a fixture at nano conferences, called nanotech "the next great technology wave." 

Wait a minute. Weren't VCs saying as much about the Internet and its offshoots? Especially the oft-quoted Mr. Jurvetson, who, as a columnist for Red Herring magazine, has in the past few years developed quite a record for celebrating trends -- "b-to-b," optical networking, online shopping "agents" -- right before their bubble was about to burst. Investors could have lost a lot of money buying the companies he mentioned. 

Asked about the matter, Mr. Jurvetson says it's too soon to say that the dot-com fads are indeed dead, because he often takes a five- and 10-year horizon in his trend-spotting. He adds that since in his writing he is only doing what VCs are supposed to do -- talk up the companies they invest in -- "people should look at what I write with a huge grain of salt." 

Another reason to keep the salt shaker handy is that while researchers are making steady and incremental progress in many areas, there have been no epochal nano-breakthroughs. In other words, nothing analogous to the 1974 discovery of gene splicing, which launched the biotech industry. 

Indeed, to people with long memories, the current hype -- as opposed to the real nanotechnology research -- has a warmed-over feeling to it. In the early and mid '90s, a field called MEMS, for micro-electromechanical systems, went through its own boomlet, with instructive results. 

MEMS, too, are tiny devices, and back then, MEMS were just starting to be used in the air bags of cars and inside computer disc drives. Those applications were seen as but the harbingers of a huge and revolutionary industry that would take MEMS everywhere. Governments poured in research money, VCs wrote checks, companies were a-born. 

It's been nearly a decade. Today, air bags and disc drives are still MEMS' greatest hits (though people are starting to look at them for medical devices, such as pacemakers). Roger H. Grace, a San Francisco analyst considered a leading MEMS expert, said today's MEMS industry is characterized by commodity-like, niche products sold under intense price pressure by companies often struggling to make a profit. 

Trend spotters always posit that every exciting new technology will inevitably create the next Microsoft or Amgen. Maybe. But the more likely outcome is that it will create five competing vendors of improved gas flow pressure regulators, if anything at all. 

Mr. Grace is somewhat skeptical, too, of the current nanotech spending binge by governments. "Everyone is afraid to let the other guy get ahead of them," he said. It's always hard to argue against more research money, but many people worry we might be chasing a techno-fad at the expense of basic science. 

While you would think they might be enjoying the ride, no one is more wary of the current hype than serious nanotechnology researchers. One of the most worried is Dr. Williams of H-P, who helped prepare the U.S. National Nanotechnology Initiative in 2000. 

"I am seeing things that are very disturbing." he says. "I get a lot of calls from VCs, though not the field's well-known ones, who tell me, `You are a leader in this; why don't we form a company and make a killing.' It's obvious to me that all they want to do is make a shell company, and then sell it and run before anyone figures out there's nothing there. 

"Whenever I speak at a nanotech conference, I feel like I am Godzilla, coming in and smashing all the hype," Dr. Williams continued. "But I don't want to see 20 years of my hard work go up in smoke because this gets overhyped, and then later on, people get angry when we don't deliver on promises that I didn't even make. I want to pop this bubble before it gets too big." 

--- 

David Bank contributed to this column. 

--- 

Comments? Write lee.gomes@wsj.com, and check back Friday for selected letters at WSJ.com/BoomTown. 

Document j000000020020506dy560001p


More Like This

 Article 233 *******************    



Corporate Focus 

GE Goes Back to Future --- R&D Grows in Importance As Innovation Becomes Key To Industrial Titan's Growth 

By Rachel Emma Silverman 
1,247 words 
7 May 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NISKAYUNA, N.Y. -- Thomas Edison's big wooden desk sits in the main entrance of the sprawling research center here in upstate New York. More than a mere curiosity, the desk once occupied by General Electric Co.'s co-founder acts as a powerful reminder of the industrial titan's R&D roots. 

In GE's labs in 1909, researcher William D. Coolidge developed the ductile tungsten filament that still burns in incandescent light bulbs today. GE's Niskayuna center, about 15 minutes from Albany, has been home to other key innovations in the first half of the 20th century, including man-made diamonds and magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, systems. 

In recent decades, much of GE's growth has been driven by units such as its NBC-TV network and GE Capital, its financial-services arm; the multi-industrial titan had shifted focus toward short-term technology research. 

Now, that is changing back again. Since Jeffrey R. Immelt took over the helm from John F. Welch Jr. last fall, R&D has grown increasingly important at GE. Earlier this year, Mr. Immelt invested $100 million to upgrade the Niskayuna research center, including building new labs and meeting centers, on its bucolic 525-acre campus overlooking the Mohawk River. As investors worry about GE's future, many say a critical source of its growth will be the innovative technology it develops. 

Leading the way in the company's renewed focus on research is Scott Donnelly, a 13-year GE veteran. Named in 2000 to head the company's global research and development, the 40-year-old Mr. Donnelly's previous position was at GE Medical Systems, where he was vice president, global technology operations, and worked closely with Mr. Immelt, then GE Medical's chief. 

On top of Mr. Edison's desk stands a stock ticker -- an apt reminder that from its beginning, this center hasn't been just a pie-in-the-sky research lab, but part of a big business. The message isn't lost on Mr. Donnelly. One of his goals is to use ever-improving technologies to create products, such as MRI machines or CT scanners, that can change the way an industry operates. At the same time, he is devoting more resources than ever to long-term research projects that may never yield marketable products -- or if they do, that could be 10 years down the road. 

The better a company's technology is, the more products it eventually sells, Mr. Donnelly asserts. That is where the company's R&D comes in. 

Some GE scientists had been focusing on shorter-term, customer-based projects, such as developing a washing machine that spins more water out of clothes. That irked some of the center's science and engineering Ph.D.s, who thought they were spending too much time fixing turbines or tweaking dishwashers. Some felt frustrated by the lack of time to pursue broader, less immediate kinds of scientific research, and are encouraged by the shift of focus. "Science was a dirty word for a while," says Anil Duggal, a project leader on the advanced-lighting project. "Now, it's not." 

In picking the center's long-term projects, Mr Donnelly worked with GE's researchers to winnow down more than 2,000 proposals submitted last year. He asked GE researchers to come up with "big areas, important technologies" while taking into account how each fit a specific GE business or market. Could that technology transform a certain business, he asked the center's scientists, as the CT scanner did for medicine? Is it a business GE already knows and is well-staffed in? Is it a growing industry? 

Using these criteria, the staff returned with 20 "big ideas," he says. "I sat down with the whole staff and we chose five," he recalls. Ultimately, the scientists "really found their own projects." These long-term research areas include nanotechnology, the study of matter on a molecular scale. The lab also is developing light sources generations ahead of GE's famed bulb, such as wall coatings that emanate light by thin, flexible sheets that could last as long as conventional fluorescent lights, while using less energy. Other areas of focus include advanced propulsion, to develop ways of powering aircraft higher and faster and biotechnology, such as developing molecular imaging, where scans can detect illnesses at a molecular level and catch them early on. 

Mr. Donnelly says that while the lab still devotes about 10% of its resources to short-term research, it is also turning to broader projects. The lab devotes 20% of its budget to long-term projects. GE aims to develop 25% more new products and increase the number of new patents it wins next year, he says. 

GE's three central research labs -- here in Niskayuna, in Bangalore, India and Shanghai, China -- employ 2,300 workers and have an annual operating budget of $327 million, which has remained steady in recent years. GE's individual businesses, such as Power Systems and Appliances, also employ their own engineers. In total, GE spends $2.3 billion for research, development and engineering, a figure that has grown 7% from 2000. The centralized research labs develop technologies that can be used for all GE businesses and they generally work on longer-term projects than the individual business labs. 

To keep researchers from getting too theoretical, and ensure projects stay linked to GE businesses and customers, Mr. Donnelly has scientists meet regularly with marketing and other executives from GE's business units. 

GE's own history illustrates why such interactions can be so critical: In 1943, GE scientist James Wright dropped boric acid into silicone oil. The resulting glob could stretch and bounce more easily than rubber. The company couldn't figure out how to market this unusual material. But in 1949, Peter Hodgson, an ad man unaffiliated with GE, spotted the substance's potential. He bought batches of the stuff, packaged it in plastic eggs, and earned millions of dollars on the product -- renamed Silly Putty. 

GE is building meeting and conference facilities at the Niskayuna center, so that employees across the company can hobnob more comfortably. Some of the best ideas, he says, come at off-hours, when employees are relaxing in the lounge or over a meal. 

GE, Mr. Donnelly says "is not the place" for scientists who want to work on a concept for years, "without anybody bothering them," he adds. Scientists at GE can do long term research, but they have to be "willing to spar with the marketing guys," he says. "This is the best of both worlds." 


---
                   Not Just Light Bulbs
  Some innovations from GE's research labs over the years
  -- 1909: Ductile tungsten filament for light bulbs
  -- 1913: Hot-cathode, high vacuum X-ray tube
  -- 1918: Non-reflecting glass, prototype of coatings used today on
camera lenses and optical devices
  -- 1953: Lexan, a resistant, clear plastic used to manufacture CDs
and DVDs
  -- 1955: Man-made diamonds
  -- 1962: The solid-state laser light
  -- 1981: Fiber optics
  -- 1999: Composite fan blade for jet engines
  -- 2000: Digital X-ray detector allowing X-rays to be read on
computer screens without film
  -- 2001: High-field open MRI
  Source: the company


(See related article: "Immelt's Familiar Troubles" -- WSJ May 7, 2002) 

Document j000000020020507dy570003r


More Like This

 Article 234 *******************    



Departments 

Forbes.com Contents 

478 words 
13 May 2002
Forbes Magazine 
20 
Volume 169; Issue 11 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Home Page for the World's Business Leaders 

TechnologyHandhelds Get RealMatthew Herper and Penelope Patsuris 

Personal digital assistants (PDAs) are getting faster, taking on more memory and--at last--becoming more than electronic card files or a way to kill time by playing games during business trips. Wireless connectivity means that the executive on the move need never be severed from e-mail. Forbes.com reports on how companies are going beyond all this to use handhelds for doing business more productively--like PepsiCo salesmen who can now visit a store and record stock-keeping data in five minutes instead of a half-hour, and doctors at a Miami hospital who are getting a lifesaving increase in medical efficiency by carrying patient records to the bedside.BusinessBaseball's Heavy HittersDan Ackman and Davide Dukcevich 

Chief executives aren't the only people who have had their pay envelopes held up to recent scrutiny. More than 60 of the 450 position players in Major League Baseball earn chief-executive-like salaries of $5 million a year and up. Go to Forbes.com to see our ranking of the top-paid players by performance and by pay-to-performance. 

Daily News & Commentary 

Analysis from Forbes throughout each business day; business, technology and market headlines as they break on the Reuters wire. 

News and Alerts by E-Mail 

Choose from 22 free daily and weekly e-mail newsletters. 

Investment Newsletters 

Get the Forbes/Wolfe Nanotech Report, the Forbes Growth Investor and four other leading-edge subscription newsletters. 

Quotes and Research 

Prices, earnings, conference-call calendar and company tear sheets. 

Forbes Lists 

Download selected FORBES lists to a PDA. Or buy detailed versions. 

Premium Services: 

The Shop@Forbes. 

Featuring Forbes Signature Series wine and Forbes Collection products. 

Forbes. 

Bookstore, Conferences, Lists and Sponsored Webcasts. 

Investing. 

Subscribe to desktop real-time stock-tracking services. 

Business. 

Search the Web's largest source of business white papers. 

Lifestyle. 

Book travel and find cars, real estate and art for sale. 

Forbes Magazine 

Best and Worst Bosses 

Explore our annual online guide to chief executive pay. Online only: 200 big-company bosses graded for long-term performance versus pay and a PDA-downloadable version of pay information on 500 executives. And use PeopleTracker to get e-mail alerts on changes in chief executives' compensation. 

Makers & Breakers 

Watch clips from our Forbes on Fox TV show and get the latest financial stats on the stocks featured in the companion column in this issue. 

Search Our Online Archive 

Instant access to past issues. 

Forbes Global 

Korean Clout 

Carlyle Group, the U.S. private equity firm with $12.5 billion under management, likes what it sees in Korea--5% annual economic growth, a stock market that's doubled since Sept. 11, pro-investment legislation and the breakup of some of Korea's inefficient chaebols. 

Document fb00000020020426dy5d00009


More Like This

 Article 235 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

INNOVATIONS 

257 words 
13 May 2002
BusinessWeek 
85 
Number 3782 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

-- Biodegradable plastics with a ``shape memory'' have been developed at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. They return to a permanent, predefined shape at a specific temperature, but can be compressed or twisted into other shapes at other temperatures. According to MIT chemical engineer Robert Langer, potential applications include temporary medical devices that could be inserted in the body via keyhole surgery, then expanded to their real size--or a thread that reverts to a corkscrew shape to serve as a stent and help keep blood vessels unblocked. -- Carbon nanotubes have been hailed as the key to revolutionary material properties for everything from biomedical products to chips. Now, those potentials should be easier to commercialize. Researchers at Rice University, led by chemist John Margrave, have found a way to attach fluorine ``handles'' to the inert carbon molecules. 

Fluorine is highly chemically active, so the fluorine reaction sites mean compounds containing nanotubes can now be tailored for a wide range of jobs. -- A mysterious family of membrane filters has been created by a team of Australian and U.S. scientists. The polymer-based filters contain silica nanoparticles whose extremely small size produces very strange results: The membrane's basic filtering capabilities are transformed, resulting in novel ``reverse-selective'' filters. That means the membranes allow larger molecules to pass through and screen out smaller molecules--the opposite of other filters. As the team reports in the Apr. 19 issue of Science, the new filters may find applications in petrochemical refining, drug synthesis, environmental cleanups, and water purification. 

Document bw00000020020509dy5d0002m


More Like This

 Article 236 *******************    



Technology (A Special Report) --- The Nanotechnician: How small can computer chips get? According to Charles Lieber, a few atoms are all you need 

By David P. Hamilton 
1,599 words 
13 May 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
R17 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

A DECADE FROM NOW, if the ubiquitous silicon computer chip has been replaced by newer, even smaller computing technology, Charles Lieber and his vials of nanowires may well have played a big role. 

Dr. Lieber's Harvard University laboratory is one of several around the world focused on manipulating matter at its most basic dimensions -- atoms and molecules -- to create working electronic devices. The field has been dubbed "nanoelectronics" because atoms themselves are typically only a few nanometers, or billionths of a meter, in diameter. 

Much of Dr. Lieber's work so far has focused on ways to create computing circuits out of tiny wire-like structures he calls nanowires, some only a few atoms thick. But the 43-year-old chemist and his research team also are exploring other applications of the technology, including minute sensors that can detect signs of cancer much earlier than existing tests. 

"It's really an amazing time, and things are really working well," says the boyish Dr. Lieber, who exudes a barely contained enthusiasm as he greets a visitor with an energetic handshake. "My students are working day and night, and I'm working like crazy -- I've never worked so hard in my life." 

Nanoelectronics itself is only the leading edge of a broader effort known as nanotechnology, a catchall term for efforts to manipulate matter at the most fundamental level possible. Some visionaries -- a group that now includes some venture capitalists and a small number of start-ups -- suggest that nanotechnology could become the next major industrial revolution. While today's applications are limited to areas such as new industrial coatings, enthusiasts figure that nanotechnology could one day lead to tiny molecule-sized machines and novel manufacturing methods in which objects essentially assemble themselves. Critics argue that it is far too early to make such grandiose claims and predict a coming wave of "nanohype" that will end in disappointment. 

Conceptually, at least, the nanotechnological notion of manipulating material structure and behavior at the atomic level is vastly different from today's most advanced techniques for dealing with the tiny, such as the processes that stamp computer-chip circuitry into silicon. Chip processing is a "top-down" technique, using stencil masks and high-tech tools to essentially spray-paint or sandblast fine circuit patterns on a silicon surface. 

By contrast, nanotechnologists focus on "bottom-up" methods involving advanced chemistry that effectively induce atoms and molecules to assemble themselves into functional structures. Atomic-level computer circuits, for instance, might "grow" themselves under the influence of carefully prepared chemical solutions and controlled environmental conditions. 

When Dr. Lieber began his career, such ideas were still science fiction. A Stanford University Ph.D. who did postdoctoral work in biophysics at the California Institute of Technology, he later spent several years studying the material properties of high-temperature superconductors, work for which he received tenure. "After crossing that hurdle, you have the luxury to think about things," he says. 

Not long after moving to Harvard in 1991, Dr. Lieber began to do just that. Nanotechnology chatter among physicists had convinced him that any sort of nanoelectronics would require some way of confining electrical current to a tiny wire -- preferably one that could be "grown" controllably as some sort of crystal. 

Dr. Lieber's superconductors offered one interesting avenue of research, since the materials naturally confined electric currents, essentially forcing electrons to move in two-dimensional "sheets" instead of allowing them to roam freely throughout the material. (Such confinement is related to superconductors' ability to conduct current without electrical resistance, although for reasons that aren't entirely clear.) So he set out to find ways to up the ante and limit electrical currents to a single dimension -- a line of current that would look like a wire. 

"The things I was working on were interesting, but I didn't discover high-temperature superconductors," Dr. Lieber says. "I'm fairly ambitious in that sense. I wanted to do something important and big." 

Still, the work was slow going at first, in part because few of the government agencies that fund most basic research were interested in such untested ideas. So he began a guerrilla campaign, steering some funding from his existing research grants into the work he really wanted to do. "That can backfire, if it doesn't work out," he says. "I figure it's not my salary if I lose it." On the other hand, he adds, "if you get something new, people are willing to say, this is a really good investment." 

One of his early attempts at building such nanowires started with nanotubes, molecular carbon structures that resemble tiny rolls of chicken wire. Nanotubes themselves don't conduct electricity, but Dr. Lieber figured that with the right chemical reactions it might be possible to grow conducting crystals on the surfaces of nanotubes, effectively turning them into nanowires. 

The team's first experiments did indeed produce current-conducting crystals on the nanotube surfaces. The results, however, were perplexing: The crystals were too perfect. Dr. Lieber dove into the scientific literature, and soon came across Bell Laboratories experiments from the 1950s and 1960s in which researchers described how they had grown whisker-like crystal structures with a chemical reaction stimulated by a metal catalyst. Such metal catalysts are also used to grow carbon nanotubes. The researchers quickly realized that they didn't need the nanotubes to grow nanowires after all -- just the metal catalyst and the right chemical reaction. 

In Dr. Lieber's basement laboratory, which now employs roughly 25 researchers, graduate student Mark Gudiksen shows off the system the group now uses to grow nanowires. At one end of a glass tube rests a silicon surface dotted with gold particles that serve as catalysts. At the other lies a small pellet of semiconductor material. Blasting the pellet with a laser releases atomic vapors that travel down the tube and recombine on the gold particles, leading to a crazy pincushion of nanowires that grow out every which way from the particles. The nanowires are easily washed from the surface in a simple chemical reaction, then stored in a liquid suspension in small vials. The nanowires, of course, are invisible to the naked eye. 

Successfully growing the nanowires was a big step, but it mainly opened the door for much more ambitious research. By altering the reactants as the nanowires are growing, the team can make wires whose composition varies along their lengths. Such nanowires can themselves function as basic electronic components such as diodes and transistors; more recently, former Lieber laboratory researcher Xianfeng Duan figured out how to make them glow in any color. As a result, such nanowires could conceivably be used as light-emitting diodes, the long-lasting, low-powered lights used everywhere from glowing sneakers to traffic lights. 

Dr. Lieber's group has also made great strides in laying down grids of crossed nanowires, in which every junction can theoretically function as a transistor -- the basic switch used to direct the calculations in computer chips. Such grids don't have to be manufactured on silicon, the material used in almost all chips these days. Dr. Lieber envisions a day when it will be possible to fabricate nanowire circuits on plastic or any other material. 

Just last year, Dr. Lieber's team succeeded in wiring up such arrays into simple but working computer circuits. Now, the team is hard at work refining its techniques and designing new components for a basic, programmable nanowire-based computer -- a goal Dr. Lieber thinks might be achievable in just a few years. 

Such nanowire-based computing could lead to incredibly dense memory chips -- a few hundred gigabytes of storage on a chip the size of your thumbnail. The technology might make possible tiny, superfast computers that could be laid out on a small square of plastic, and could theoretically also enable a potentially powerful form of calculation known as quantum computing. 

That said, even Dr. Lieber isn't willing to bet that nanowires will necessarily end up outgunning existing computer-chip technology. For starters, the chip industry has decades of experience and billions of research dollars aimed at surmounting seemingly insuperable physical obstacles, one reason it has inexorably continued to cut chip sizes in half every 18 months or so. 

More than that, though, Dr. Lieber thinks nanowires and other nanotechnologies are likely to have their greatest impact in unexpected ways. Another group in his laboratory, for instance, recently demonstrated a nanowire-based sensor so sensitive that it can detect single molecules of a given substance. The sensor is essentially a nanowire treated with antibodies designed to bind to the substance in question; when a molecule sticks to the antibody, its intrinsic electrical charge is enough to detectably alter the electric current in the nanowire. 

Using such a sensor, the team demonstrated the ability to detect a protein known as the prostate-specific antigen, considered a fairly reliable marker for prostate cancer, with a sensitivity nearly 10 times as great as existing tests. The team has licensed the sensor, which still must be tested using actual blood-serum samples, to a Palo Alto, Calif., start-up called Nanosys Inc., which Dr. Lieber helped found. 

"If we limit ourselves to the idea that these [nanowires] are just for molecular electronics, I think that's just too limiting," Dr. Lieber says. "We have a remarkable wealth of things in hand to play with." 

Document j000000020020513dy5d00006


More Like This

 Article 237 *******************    



IBM Finds Evidence Nanotubes Can Beat Silicon in Circuits 

212 words 
20 May 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B8 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

ARMONK, N.Y. -- International Business Machines Corp. researchers say they have found proof that exotic structures called carbon nanotubes have the potential to outperform silicon in future integrated circuits. 

The findings, to be reported in the May 20 issue of Applied Physics Letters, are an important milestone in the effort to see if carbon nanotubes can someday replace ubiquitous silicon. 

Phaedon Avouris, manager of nanoscale science at IBM's labs in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., said, "The basic motivation for all this research is that the progress in silicon isn't going to continue forever. In 10 to 15 years, you need to develop some better alternatives." 

Researchers started looking at carbon nanotubes as potential materials for integrated circuits about five years ago. Carbon nanotubes are very strong, highly conductive, tube-shaped molecules -- so thin that 50,000 of them bundled would fit in the cyclindrical dimensions of a strand of human hair. 

The IBM researchers created transistors using carbon nanotubes that in tests demonstrated more than twice as much capacity to carry electric current as advanced silicon transistors. IBM researchers last year figured out how to make a logic circuit in a nanotube, an important key to developing the technology for computers. 

Document j000000020020520dy5k0002m


More Like This

 Article 238 *******************    



Gadgets 

IBM to Announce Leap in Capacity Of Data Storage 

By Kevin J. Delaney 
570 words 
11 June 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
D6 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

PARIS -- International Business Machines Corp. plans to announce today that it has doubled the amount of data it can store per square inch, a finding that could boost the capacity of cellphones, digital cameras and hand-held computers within a few years. 

Researchers at IBM's Zurich laboratory have achieved storage rates of one terabit per square inch using what are essentially microscopic punch cards. Such technology could store 25 million printed textbook pages on a surface the size of a postage stamp, about 20 times what is possible with techniques used in the best computer hard drives today. 

IBM's latest achievement could provide one of the early fruits of the much-hyped nanotechnology field, an area of research into structures that are one or more nanometers, or one-millionth of a millimeter, in length. It also comes at a time when researchers are grappling with the physical limits of the traditional magnetic storage used in hard drives. 

Peter Vettiger, director of the IBM project, says its latest storage technology could be available commercially as early as 2005 at prices similar to the memory cards used in digital cameras and other devices today. The Armonk, N.Y., company, which last week announced plans to sell its hard-disk operations to Japan's Hitachi Ltd., says it is too early to speculate on whether IBM itself would make or sell products based on its storage advances. A spokesman said it would look closely at the possibility of licensing them to other manufacturers. 

IBM's storage technology, developed under a six-year-old project code-named Millipede, uses thousands of nanometer-scale tips to punch indentations into a thin plastic film. As with the paper punch cards used in computing decades ago, the indentations represent bits of data. Unlike the punch cards, however, the plastic film can be erased and written over again through techniques that coax the heated film back into its original shape. IBM says one advantage of the technology is it can consume about the same amount of power as the so-called flash-memory cards used in many digital devices but should be able to pack as much as 15 times as much information into the same space and access it at acceptable speeds. 

The latest terabit finding is based on an experiment involving a single tip making indentations 10 nanometers in diameter -- a mere fraction of the size of the period at the end of this sentence. IBM has built a model using more than 1,000 tips and aims to have a prototype with more than 4,000 tips working by the end of the year. Its researchers also expect to boost storage capacity further by fine-tuning the technology and encoding the data more efficiently. 

"One terabit is not the end," Mr. Vettiger says. "This is just another important milestone to higher densities." 

IBM isn't alone in investigating the possibilities of what is known as probe storage, which employs the tips used in some atomic microscopes to alter or read the storage media. Researchers at Hewlett-Packard Co., Seagate Technology LLC, the University of Twente in the Netherlands, and Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh are among those working in the field. 

Details of the latest findings by IBM are published in the June issue of IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology. 

Document j000000020020611dy6b0002y


More Like This

 Article 239 *******************    



Insider Trading Spotlight 

589 words 
19 June 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
C18 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


               Biggest Individual Trades
  (Based on reports filed with regulators last week)



                NO. OF      % OF
               SHRS. IN    HLDNG.
$ VALUE         TRANS.     EXCLD.      TRANSACTION
(000)           (000)      OPTNS.         DATES
  BUYERS
Nvidia (Symbol: NVDA)
(Insider's Name/Title: M. Stevens/D)
14,964           430       34.80         5/29/02
Western Wireless (Symbol: WWCA)
(Insider's Name/Title: T. Gillespie/OD)
11,469         3,020        3.60-4.07    5/13-28/02
Western Wireless (Symbol: WWCA)
(Insider's Name/Title: J. Stanton/CEO)
11,456         3,020        3.60-4.07    5/13-28/02
Agilent Technologies (Symbol: A)
(Insider's Name/Title: W. Hewlett/D)
 4,740           171       27.10-28.00   5/23-28/02
Steven Madden (Symbol: SHOO)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Madden/B)
 4,001           206       19.03-19.74   5/06-09/02
Elcor (Symbol: ELK)
(Insider's Name/Title: H. Work/CB)
 3,098           116       26.65         5/31/02
Buckeye Technologies (Symbol: BKI)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Mencoff/D)
 3,000           300       10.00         5/21/02
Energizer Holdings (Symbol: ENR)
(Insider's Name/Title: J. Mulcahy/CEO)
 2,583           100       25.21-26.00   5/15-16/02
Nanophase Technologies (Symbol: NANX)
(Insider's Name/Title: B. Whitmore/B)
 2,500           500        5.00         5/29/02
Championsp Auto Racing Tms (Symbol: MPH)
(Insider's Name/Title: G. Forsythe/B)
 2,425           218        9.03-14.03   5/03-31/02
  Sellers
Jones Apparel (Symbol: JNY)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Kimmel/CB)
59,216         1,500       39.17-39.94   5/03-08/02
Pediatrix Medical (Symbol: PDX)
(Insider's Name/Title: R. Medel/CEO)
44,870         1,014       44.25         5/02/02
AMN Healthcare Services (Symbol: AHS)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Francis/CEO)
31,000         1,000       31.00         5/22/02
Vornado Realty Trust (Symbol: VNO)
(Insider's Name/Title: R. Wight/DO)
28,535           650       43.90         5/29/02
Williams Sonoma (Symbol: WSM)
(Insider's Name/Title: H. Lester/DO)
18,927           590       32.04-32.13   5/29-31/02
Phillips Petroleum (Symbol: P)
(Insider's Name/Title: T. O Malley/Z)
16,765           280       59.94         5/20/02
Lockheed Martin (Symbol: LMT)
(Insider's Name/Title: N. Augustine/D)
14,880           240       62.00         5/30/02
Coventry Health Care (Symbol: CVH)
(Insider's Name/Title: A. Wise/CEO)
12,412           400       29.01-31.80   5/07-30/02
Newmont Mining (Symbol: NEM)
(Insider's Name/Title: M. Haas/eD)
11,335           378       29.91-30.04   5/07/02
Advanced Fibre Communictns (Symbol: AFCI)
(Insider's Name/Title: D. Green/D)
11,106           574       19.22-19.55   5/14-16/02
  ---
              Buying and Selling By Sector
  (Based on actual transaction dates in reports received through Friday)
SECTOR                       BUYING       SELLING
Basic Industries            7,729,565    58,020,242
Capital Goods               2,770,874    71,152,212
Consumer Durables             101,437    49,356,317
Consumer Non-Durables       8,430,678    52,826,359
Consumer Services           7,228,837   273,342,133
Energy                        415,151    60,356,169
Finance                    11,635,320   136,985,924
Health Care                 3,698,334   180,258,609
Miscellaneous                  29,800             0
Public Utilities           26,875,210    12,948,379
Technology                 23,998,460   129,861,456
Transportation                 22,106    13,576,593
  B-beneficial owner of more than 10% of a security class. CB-chairman.
CEO-chief executive officer. P-president. D-director. VP-vice
president. O-officer. UT-unknown. Z-other.
  Source: Thomson Financial


Document j000000020020619dy6j0004i


More Like This

 Article 240 *******************    



The Innovation Crisis 

What's Next?; Some of the world's greatest innovators ponder the $64 billion question: What's the next big thing? 

Edited by James Daly and Michael Boland 
1,597 words 
24 June 2002
Forbes ASAP 
76 
Volume 169; Issue 14 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Twelve scientists lay odds on the next great inventions. 

Ruth Rogan BeneritoRuth Rogan Benerito has used her broad scientific training to radically change the cotton, wood, and paper industries. The most noteworthy benefit for consumers has been her development of easy-care cotton and wash-and-wear fabrics. 

"One: Innovative procedures for the use of embryonic stem cells that will be used to cure debilitating diseases or reconstruct nerve cells after spinal cord injuries. Two: Invention of a harmless but effective method that will control termite infestations around the world. Three: Innovative mass-transit systems that will lower energy demand and improve the environment."Paul B. MacCready 

Aviation pioneer Paul B. MacCready is the founder and chairman of AeroVironment. He designed and built the Gossamer Condor, the first sustained and controlled human-powered plane, in 1979. 

"Solving the energy problem is key. Right now, we could cut the amount of power used in this country by a factor of two. You can get that power from renewable resources--wind and solar, for example--rather than burning fossil fuel and putting contaminants in the atmosphere. Instead, our government likes to burn oil and ignores its many negative aspects. We need to focus on the betterment of society, not just on making money. We must look at bigger issues, like: Is the world going to survive?" 

COMPANIES TO WATCH 

: McDonough Braungart Design Chemistry (environmentally friendly product design); Toyota and Honda (vehicles that run on fuel cells). 

Ray Kurzweil 

Ray Kurzweil was the principal developer of the first omnifont optical character-recognition technology, the first print-to-speech reading machine for the blind, and the first music synthesizer capable of re-creating the grand piano and other orchestral instruments. 

"I have two ideas, although their full impact won't be felt for decades. The first is a three-dimensional molecular computer, possibly based on nanotube technology. Molecular computing will keep the exponential growth of computing going past the anticipated life span of Moore's Law. The next idea is a system for sending microscopic intelligent robots into the human bloodstream. These robots will fight pathogens, rebuild bodies, provide full-immersion virtual reality from inside the nervous system, and establish direct mental connections to the Internet." 

COMPANIES TO WATCH 

: Hewlett-Packard, Lucent Technologies Bell Labs, Matrix Semiconductor. 

Carver Mead 

Carver Mead made many pioneering contributions to solid-state electronics and microchip design. He is professor emeritus at the California Institute of Technology and founded Foveon, a manufacturer of digital camera technology and products. 

"Any specific prediction we make about upcoming inventions is bound to be wrong--even if we are talking about our own work. Our predictions are really just our aspirations. As we learn more and follow our heart and our instincts, our aspirations change. Eventually our work leads us to a place we may never have imagined. But it's usually completely different from anything we ever predicted. And much better, always much better." 

Moira Gunn 

Moira Gunn is the host of National Public Radio's "Tech Nation." She holds a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering and a software patent in human nutrition. 

"Any invention that doesn't network effectively and address human-centric design parameters is an exercise in burning venture capital. The biggest problem with new inventions is that they're running smack up against the fact that we're human. We can build a little phone, but it's too tiny to use. We can build a thumbnail screen, but no one can read it. If an invention doesn't work for Mobile Me, then it might as well not exist. So, repeat after me: 'I am the center of my techno-universe. I am tired of lugging around all this stuff, I am getting pretty grumpy.'" 

Robert Langer 

Robert Langer is the Germeshausen Professor of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

"A few possibilities in the medical area: much more rapid approaches for sequencing the genome; smart implantable drug-delivery systems that sense signals at the molecular level and administer the correct dose of drug in response to those signals; new ways to deliver genes during gene therapy research; and new methods of imaging normal and diseased states." 

COMPANIES TO WATCH 

: U.S. Genomics (sequencing the genome); MicroCHIPS (implantable drug-delivery systems); Insert Therapeutics and Expression Genetics (new ways to deliver genes); Acusphere (imaging normal and diseased states). 

Dean Kamen 

Dean Kamen holds more than 150 patents. His inventions include a portable dialysis machine and the Segway Human Transporter. Kamen is also the founder of FIRST, an organization dedicated to motivating students to understand, use, and enjoy science and technology. 

"We must invent delivery systems and economic models that allow us to share our incredible technology with the emerging world. Two-thirds of the world sees us sitting here with air conditioning in the summer and heat in the winter. We have anesthesia and clean drinking water. We have a bulldozer, and they have a pickax. Who's going to be resentful? We must help the rest of the world create value with the technology. Until they spend their time writing software code instead of finding clean water or burying their babies, we're going to be in a race with catastrophe." 

Daniel Branagan 

Daniel Branagan is a scientist at the Department of Energy's Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory. 

"Today's technologies are limited not by imagination but by materials. For example, the strongest steel alloys exhibit only 10% of the strength that is theoretically possible. In the next few years, we'll see alloys that use a nanotechnology approach to create a new class of highly wear- and corrosion-resistant steel coatings [dubbed Super Hard Steel]. By designing specific multiphase nanoscale structures, we can create a coating that exhibits strength [and hardness] up to 45% of what is theoretically possible. These new coatings will have an important industrial impact, but the greatest benefit will come from exploiting these material properties in thick industrial sheets." 

COMPANIES TO WATCH 

: mining equipment manufacturers, aircraft engine developers, and knife and saw blade makers. 

James Fergason 

James Fergason holds more than 125 U.S. patents in liquid crystal technology, the most famous being for the first workable liquid crystal display (LCD). 

"Basic PC hardware has far exceeded the capacity that current applications need to make use of it. The next step is real-time automation that makes full use of the PC's database and computing speed. This allows real-time images to be created, even though the image construction involves data that must be sampled from several disparate sources and combined. We can expect this to be applied in ways that revolutionize medical diagnostics, surgery, and entertainment." 

COMPANIES TO WATCH 

: IBM, Hewlett-Packard. 

Andrew Heafitz 

Andrew Heafitz is the 2002 winner of the Lemelson-MIT Student Prize for inventiveness. His first patent was for a high-speed shutter for a balsa wood camera that he designed while in high school. 

"One invention that will have a huge impact is the hybrid gasoline-electric automobile, which gets twice the mileage of existing models and is fun to drive. This kind of mileage improvement addresses many of the world's major problems, including reliance on oil imported from the Middle East, global warming, and urban air quality. Japanese auto manufacturers have already identified this potential revolution and have started selling such cars, which I see every day around Boston." 

COMPANIES TO WATCH 

: Honda (produces the Insight and Civic hybrid cars); Toyota (sells the Prius hybrid); Ford (will introduce the Escape hybrid SUV in 2003); Solectria (hybrid buses and trucks). 

Nolan Bushnell 

Nolan Bushnell has launched more than 20 companies but is perhaps best known as the founder of Atari. He is now CEO of uWink.com, which provides games via a global network of touch-screen terminals. 

"No vision of the future is complete without mechanical systems moving about in the home, taking care of mundane and tedious chores. So I believe the next major breakthrough will be in the area of mobile robotics. We're getting to a point where we're able to build machines that will be beneficial and laborsaving in a broad range of businesses, as well as in consumer appliances. Progress in inexpensive hardware and intelligent software systems will provide the underpinnings for a successful mobile-robotics company within the next five years." 

Al Shugart 

Al Shugart cofounded Seagate Technology, the world's largest independent hard-drive manufacturer. He has more than 45 years of experience in the technology industry and is now chairman, president, and CEO of Al Shugart International, a venture capital and public relations firm. 

"I see the development of new cures or preventive measures for diseases. One such idea is colloidal silver, which works but isn't patentable for human consumption because it isn't FDA-approved. Colloidal silver is a solution of submicroscopic particles of pure silver suspended in water by an electric charge on each particle. It can be taken orally or applied to the skin. When it comes in contact with single-celled pathogens, such as viruses or parasites or bacteria, it disables the pathogens' metabolic enzymes, causing the pathogen to suffocate and die. Perhaps someday colloidal silver will be widely accepted along with other nontraditional methods of treatment once considered quackery, such as acupuncture." 

COMPANIES TO WATCH: 

Robey, FutureMart, NutriVera Naturals. 

Document fb00000020020610dy6o0000r


More Like This

 Article 241 *******************    


Features/Cool Companies 2002/Biotech 

No Big Deal 

Adam Lashinsky; Research Compiled By Julie Schlosser And Noshua Watson 
429 words 
24 June 2002
Fortune Magazine 
160 
Vol. 145, Issue: 13 
English
(Copyright 2002) 

FLUIDIGM Microfluidics www.fluidigm.com

Try to imagine a laboratory on a chip, and you're likely to come up with Lilliputian notions of tiny researchers marching around in miniature lab coats. Fanciful as all that sounds, it's not far from what Fluidigm is doing. 

A pioneer in an emerging field called microfluidics, the three- year-old South San Francisco outfit stamps microprocessors onto rubber. Within the translucent chips, which look a bit like the ones inside your PC, are microscopic valves and pumps that allow researchers to mix trace amounts of fluids in different combinations. Those fluids contain cells and compounds that act on the cells, each an experiment with hopes of producing elements of a life-saving drug. Microprocessors shuttle electrons; Fluidigm's chips shuttle fluids. 

What makes this technology cool is that the Fluidigm chip is a smaller version of a very large--and very expensive--process. Its chip can host tens of thousands of experiments simultaneously. A handful of chips the size of a coaster could replace lab equipment weighing several tons and costing millions of dollars. Fluidigm likens its big clunky equipment vs. elegant little chip solution to the electronics industry's breakthrough that replaced enormous vacuum-tube-based computers with sleek devices running on semiconductors. 

The developments in Fluidigm's labs have been promising enough that venture capitalists, including an arm of drug giant GlaxoSmithKline, have pumped in more than $50 million, the largest chunk of it in October 2001, when VC handouts fit into the nano category. Indeed, Fluidigm is riding a wave of buzzwords, including "nanotech" (its stuff is small) and "genomics" (experiments that help researchers test specific gene sequences for a given disease). It even has an entrepreneurial CEO. "We believe we are going to change the way biology is done," says Gajus (pronounced GUY-oose) Worthington, an Alaska-bred fisherman's son who decided he preferred semiconductors to salmon. 

Fluidigm sees life sciences as only the first target area for commercializing microfluidics. For example, a liquid-filled chip could function as a refrigerator on the back of a microprocessor, enabling further miniaturization of computers. That's a big dream for a company that makes a habit of thinking small. --Adam Lashinsky 

WAS VIAGRA WORTH THAT MUCH? On average, the drug discovery 

process takes ten years and costs $500 million. 

See also introduction page 142 of same issue 

Caption: COLOR PHOTO: PAXTON Fluidigm's chips could replace tons of lab equipment. 


Document fortu00020020611dy6o00016


More Like This

 Article 242 *******************    



Insider Trading Spotlight 

601 words 
26 June 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
C16 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


               Biggest Individual Trades
  (Based on reports filed with regulators last week)



                NO. OF      % OF
               SHRS. IN    HLDNG.
$ VALUE         TRANS.     EXCLD.      TRANSACTION
(000)           (000)      OPTNS.         DATES
  BUYERS
Juniper Networks (Symbol: JNPR)
(Insider's Name/Title: C. Kramlich/D)
30,399         3,000       10.05-10.25   5/22-29/02
Netscreen Technologies (Symbol: NSCN)
(Insider's Name/Title: M. Goguen/DO)
11,011           992        9.11-12.95   5/10-31/02
Digitalthink (Symbol: DTHK)
(Insider's Name/Title: A. Berliner/B)
 4,844         4,048        0.93-1.55    4/29-31/02
Nanophase Technologies (Symbol: NANX)
(Insider's Name/Title: B. Whitmore/B)
 2,500           500        5.00         5/29/02
Inverness Med Innovations (Symbol: IMA)
(Insider's Name/Title: R. Zwanziger/CEO)
 2,300           100       23.00         5/28/02
Liquidmetal Technologies (Symbol: LQMT)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Tjoa/DO)
 1,765           117       15.00-15.30   5/22-28/02
Flowers Foods (Symbol: FLO)
(Insider's Name/Title: A. Mcmullian/CEO)
 1,664            65       24.99-25.75   5/20-28/02
Symantec (Symbol: SYMC)
(Insider's Name/Title: J. Thompson/P)
 1,391            50       27.81         5/06/02
Drugstore.com (Symbol: DSCM)
(Insider's Name/Title: D. Levitan/D)
 1,320           500        2.64         5/06/02
Nautilus Group (Symbol: NLS)
(Insider's Name/Title: P. Little/D)
 1,237            30       39.55-41.99   5/07-08/02
  SELLERS
Jones Apparel Group (Symbol: JNY)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Kimmel/CB)
59,216         1,500       39.17-39.94   5/03-08/02
D R Horton (Symbol: DHI)
(Insider's Name/Title: J. Schuler/D)
38,634         1,532       24.40-25.65   5/22-30/02
Dianon Systems (Symbol: DIAN)
(Insider's Name/Title: G. Gilbert/D)
31,351           482       62.14-66.84   5/02-16/02
Superior Industries Intl (Symbol: SUP)
(Insider's Name/Title: L. Borick/P)
30,969           595       51.56-52.38   5/03-15/02
Vornado Realty Trust (Symbol: VNO)
(Insider's Name/Title: R. Wight/DO)
28,535           650       43.90         5/29/02
Chubb (Symbol: CB)
(Insider's Name/Title: D. O' Hare/CB)
26,892           353       76.10-76.14   5/02/02
Varco International  (Symbol: VRC)
(Insider's Name/Title: L. Simmons/DO)
25,953         1,230       20.72-21.57   5/01-14/02
Apria Healthcare Group (Symbol: AHG)
(Insider's Name/Title: D. Batchelder/D)
25,352           993       23.55-26.21   5/01-21/02
Centene (Symbol: CNTE)
(Insider's Name/Title: E. Cahill/D)
24,750         1,000       24.75         5/22-05/02
Viacom (Symbol: VIAB)
(Insider's Name/Title: P. Dauman/D)
24,666           490       50.05-50.70   5/15-20/02
  ---
              Buying and Selling By Sector
  (Based on actual transaction dates in reports received through Friday)
SECTOR                       BUYING       SELLING
Basic Industries            1,252,340    47,060,322
Capital Goods               3,356,173    82,109,224
Consumer Durables             765,579   168,495,930
Consumer Non-Durables       3,763,867   141,015,981
Consumer Services          11,503,188   472,383,316
Energy                      1,814,370    67,222,281
Finance                    12,090,477   268,710,637
Health Care                11,950,170   293,381,367
Miscellaneous              11,148,550    24,626,824
Public Utilities            1,501,732    19,337,655
Technology                 41,318,362   277,985,270
Transportation                307,236     8,942,384
  B-beneficial owner of more than 10% of a security class. CB-chairman.
CEO-chief executive officer. P-president. D-director. VP-vice
president. O-officer. UT-unknown. Z-other.
  Source: Thomson Financial


Document j000000020020626dy6q0000k


More Like This

 Article 243 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: SPECIAL REPORT: The Stars of Asia: Innovators 

MASTER OF THE HAPPY ACCIDENT Iijima is the research leader for the nanotube, a building block for the 21st century 

727 words 
8 July 2002
BusinessWeek 
72 
Number 3790 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

SUMIO IIJIMA Senior Research Fellow NEC 

It may sound like something from a sci-fi tale, but a material invisible to the naked eye yet harder than diamonds and many times stronger than steel is likely to become a key building block for the 21st century. And the man who discovered it, Sumio Iijima of Japan, is a prime candidate for a future Nobel prize. The material is known as the carbon nanotube. Not only will the nanotube yield stronger, lighter industrial materials, but because of its electrically charged properties it's also expected to give rise to a new class of tiny-yet-powerful logic chips, new types of power lines, low-energy computer display terminals, and supercompact fuel-cell batteries for cars and other machines. 

Iijima discovered the hollow carbon cylinders in 1991. Since then, he has analyzed the way they work, learned how to manipulate them, and made progress toward molding them into useful products. His work has sparked a parallel global research effort in carbon nanotechnology. But Iijima is still the research leader. In April, Philadelphia's Franklin Institute awarded him the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Physics, one of the world's most prestigious science prizes, whose recipients include many Nobel laureates. 

The congenial scientist, who splits his time between his home in Nagoya, where he teaches at Meijo University, and a lab operated by the electronics giant NEC Corp. near Tokyo, is too busy to enjoy such accolades. Although he is 63, Iijima believes he still has plenty to contribute. Over the past year, he and his team at NEC have used nanotubes as a component in hydrogen-powered fuel cells that could prove to be the key energy source for automobiles in the future. He has also used a layer of nanotubes as an electrode to power a compact fuel cell for use in mobile devices. That way, laptops and cell phones may go days or weeks without the need for recharging. ``I may be doing my best work in my 60s,'' says Iijima. ``I've always been a late bloomer.'' 

Indeed, in his youth there was nothing to indicate that Iijima would develop an interest in the molecular world. He grew up in then-rural Saitama, which borders Tokyo to the north. Although he enjoyed chemistry and physics in high school, he recalls being too busy with his favorite pastime, climbing mountains, to pay much attention to his studies. As a result, he failed the national university entrance exams. So he buckled down for a year and in 1959 was accepted at the University of Electro-Communications, which trains engineers. He wound up in the lab of an interesting chemistry professor and chose to pursue graduate studies at Tohoku University, one of Japan's finest tech schools. 

From then on, says Iijima, his life was one fortunate coincidence after another. At his admissions interview, the Tohoku professors decided to place Iijima in the microscopy lab, where research into the atomic structure of materials is conducted using high-resolution electron microscopes. ``This one interview determined the rest of my life,'' he says. ``It was an accident that suited me well.'' Iijima became an expert in manipulating the difficult machines. He started studying the atomic structure of carbon in the 1970s while a visiting professor at Arizona State University and deserves some credit for the discovery of a molecular carbon called C60 that in 1996 won a U.S.-British team a Nobel prize in chemistry. Iijima adopted the same method used to create C60 in his nanotube experiments: He passed electrical sparks between two graphite rods. When he placed the resulting soot under the microscope, he discovered it consisted of many layers of tiny carbon tubes stacked within tubes. These are now called multi-wall carbon nanotubes. Later, he discovered an even stronger single-wall variety. 

When he's not working, Iijima pursues a higher mission--encouraging his students to seek scientific careers. He also advises them to be prepared to seize opportunities. ``Everything that has happened to me has been serendipitous,'' he says. Sound advice from a master of the unexpected. 

Photograph: SUMIO IIJIMA PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM WAGNER/CORBIS SABA 


Document bw00000020020703dy7800038


More Like This

 Article 244 *******************    



Technology 

Another Dimension; Chipmakers chase 3-D. 

Benjamin Fulford 
1,729 words 
22 July 2002
Forbes Magazine 
173 
Volume 170; Issue 02 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Chipmakers are running out of room. The answer might lie in 3-D. 

Turns out chipmakers and big-city developers have a similar problem: They are running out of space. In less than a decade, engineers figure they will have packed all the computing power they can into a microchip's tiny real estate, ending the yearly leaps in processing speed we take for granted. One long-proposed solution: Pull a Donald Trump and build up instead of out. You can pack more tenants in a skyscraper than in a ranch house; why not turn the microchip into a cube to get more computing power in the same space? 

Yet no one has succeeded in 30 years of effort to make a commercially viable, three-dimensional chip. Most chipmakers, including Intel, Hewlett-Packard and IBM, have jumped past 3-D in favor of nanotechnology, which could let them string individual molecules together to create chips a hundredth the size of today's--in ten years. Undaunted, two 3-D chipmakers, working across the globe from each other, say they are close to pulling it off. If they are right, it will change the face of electronics by increasing semiconductor power and speed by a factor of 10--at no additional cost. The 3-D chip would extend Moore's Law, which states that a chip's components will double every 18 months, for years beyond current theoretical limits. 

The two 3-D designs use different approaches, but both are meant to bypass the same problem: In as little as a decade, microchip circuits will become so thin that electrons will slip off their paths and collide, a phenomenon known as quantum tunneling. A 3-D structure would mean "we would not have to worry about theoretical limits for 30 years," says Fujio Masuoka, who has been working on a 3-D design for eight years. Masuoka has minimal support and funding, but his pedigree makes him a contender: The former Toshiba engineer invented "flash memory"--tiny chips in cell phones and other gadgets that don't lose data when the power shuts off--and spawned a $76-billion-a-year industry. 

Yet the 59-year-old received just a few hundred dollars for his triumph. He left Toshiba in 1994 to become a professor at Tohoku University at Sendai in northern Japan. There he and a small team of researchers have been working on a 3-D chip; he says it will be ready in five years. 

He had better hurry. Santa Clara, Calif.-based Matrix Semiconductor, which has raised $80 million from Thomson Multimedia, Sony, Kodak, Benchmark Capital and Microsoft, says it has created a 3-D chip it will start selling by year-end, first to Thomson, which will use them in a line of digital cameras. Microcubes could eventually replace all semiconductors, but for now their would-be inventors foresee them replacing Masuoka's progeny, flash memory. 

For three decades engineers at Stanford, Livermore Labs and elsewhere couldn't overcome the obstacles to a 3-D semiconductor. They couldn't figure out how to build a chip up, vertically, while still conducting electrical currents in their circuitry; the currents naturally move better side-to-side. Executives at Matrix say they have solved the problem by emulating the flat-panel display industry, which has figured out how to place the circuits on glass substrates by developing "thin-film" transistors. They are also using a polishing process that smoothes the metal that sits above the circuitry so engineers can place another layer of transistors on top, sandwich-style. 

Most important, the Matrix design is meant to be manufactured at existing chip plants, saving money and time. Matrix doesn't own a plant itself; it has contracted the work out to Taiwan-based Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp., which can use its standard equipment to make the 3-D chips. 

Masuoka's design, by contrast, is much more ambitious and much more expensive. Rather than layer the chip circuitry atop one another, he has designed the circuitry itself to stand vertically; he says the design will have a crucial speed advantage. He estimates tooling and clean room costs will run up to an additional $80 million. So far he has used university and private grants to fund the $10 million he has spent to date, and he figures the same sources will provide another $5 million before he is done; thereafter he will need to land venture capital money. 

Masuoka, a shy but confident man, won't admit it, but losing the 3-D chip race would hurt. The new chips were supposed to be Masuoka's chance to redeem himself--and get rich--after pioneering flash memory and getting little credit and even less money for his efforts. 

The engineer had always seemed destined for great things. Before he joined Toshiba in 1971, he invented a type of memory (known as SAMOS) while studying for his doctorate at Tohoku University. After five years at Toshiba, he invented another type of memory and was then moved to the semiconductor production division, where he developed a 1-megabit DRAM. 

What fired him up, though, was one of the biggest challenges facing the industry in the 1970s: How to find a way to retain memory so that data didn't vanish every time the power was turned off. Engineers found it too cumbersome to build such a "nonvolatile" memory for each and every bit of data. Masuoka's insight was that information needed to be stored in big batches and for a very short time rather than storing single bits of information for long periods. It was easier to engineer the retention of big batches because this could be done with much simpler and more compact circuit design. Working nights and weekends, he tinkered with the idea. 

Four years later he produced the first flash memory. "I was now senior enough that I could go to the factory without permission and order them to make me one," he said. His seniority came as a result of his innovations in his day job, working on DRAM technology. 

When Masuoka presented flash at the annual International Electronics Developers Meeting in San Jose, Calif. in 1984, the American semiconductor industry saw it as a serious threat. Back at home his superiors at Toshiba were mildly surprised when a number of U.S. companies, including Intel, as well as some automobile manufacturers, asked for samples. 

Intel immediately put more than 300 engineers to work on flash memory. At Toshiba, meanwhile, "They let five guys help me on a part-time basis," Masuoka says. Although Masuoka's group was first to market flash memory (with a product used in cars), it was not long before Intel completely dominated the market. In its 25-year anniversary commemorative book, published in 1992, Intel boasts how it reversed the usual pattern of a U.S. invention being turned into a Japanese product. It is now Intel's number two product after its processor line. 

Masuoka's work with DRAMs, where Toshiba was by then a world leader and most U.S. companies were withdrawing from the market, won him a promotion. He now had 100 engineers working for him in DRAM development, which was earning Toshiba $1 billion a year. 

Intel, though, was receiving $2 billion dollars a year from flash memory, which became a vital component in personal computers and automobile electronics. Other companies, like AMD, Fujitsu, Sharp and Mitsubishi, also piled into the market. 

But Masuoka was still working on flash improvements. In 1986 he was spending half his time in America as a witness in a patent lawsuit involving Toshiba and Texas Instruments (TI had sued Toshiba and other Asian chipmakers for allegedly knocking off its DRAM designs; all the parties eventually settled out of court). While waiting each time for his turn to testify, he began working on a new type of flash memory and then continued in his spare time. 

The idea was a flash memory that could be used to replace the hard drives of computers. In 1987, again without permission, Masuoka made some batches of his new type of flash memory. This time he was senior enough to devote resources to the project to ensure that Toshiba gained an insurmountable lead in both patents and production. "Toshiba is a good company in the sense that they give middle managers enough autonomy to do such things," Masuoka says. 

His aim was nothing less than to replace the $50 billion a year market for hard disk drives on computers. Flash memory has many advantages. It does not have any mechanical moving parts, it uses less than a hundredth the power of a hard disk and it can be made very small. Over time, its biggest disadvantage--high cost--was sure to be overcome, he felt. He was right: These days, for anything under 256 megabytes of memory, flash is cheaper than a hard drive. 

Masuoka's innovations earned him a few hundred dollars from Toshiba after a Japanese newspaper named flash an invention of the year in 1988. Although he received job offers from U.S. firms, Masuoka says that "in those days in Japan, leaving your company was just not considered to be an option." 

However, shortly after the first of these new memories went on the market in 1990, Masuoka was put out to pasture; he was only 47. "They told me, 'We do not need you any more.' They put me in a job that was labeled as a promotion but where I would work alone with no subordinates and no colleagues. As an engineer, that means you cannot do anything," he says. He complained, "But I was told 'You are not a team player, you do not obey orders, you go off and do things on your own.'" He quit in 1994. Toshiba disputes Masuoka's account, saying his new job was indeed a promotion. 

Meanwhile, if current trends continue, the world market for flash memory will soon be worth $150 billion. Toshiba is sure to benefit, although Masuoka will not see any money. To strike it rich himself, he will need to push his 3-D chip hard enough to effectively replace his old inventions. If he can move fast enough. 

Document fb00000020020708dy7m00011


More Like This

 Article 245 *******************    



SCIENCE JOURNAL 

Envy Microworld Life, Where Things Get Neater as Time Passes 

By Sharon Begley 
774 words 
2 August 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

WHEN THE RESEARCH paper arrived on March 4 at Physical Review Letters, one of the world's top physics journals, editors winced. "Experimental Demonstration of Violations of the Second Law of Thermodynamics," the title boldly proclaimed. 

Claims of violations of the Second Law tend to come from the same folks who talk to ET via aluminum foil, but this one, the editors quickly saw, was different, offering tantalizing hints about questions as diverse as the behavior of nanomachines, the thermodynamic arguments against evolution and the universality of nature's laws. 

There are several ways to express the Second Law, but the basic idea is twofold. First, in a closed system, entropy (disorder) increases. Or as that great thermodynamicist William Butler Yeats said, things fall apart. 

In addition, you can't harvest heat energy from cooler surroundings and turn it into work. That, alas, precludes running a machine on the energy from the dancing molecules in a tubful of cold water and leaving behind a block of ice. If such a trick were possible, then machines could create electrical power rather than gobble it up, perpetual-motion machines could hum merrily forever, and things would become more orderly as time went by (even if your mother didn't clean up after you). 

No wonder inventors and teens alike would love to repeal the Second Law. Who wouldn't welcome a world of self-organizing closets? And no wonder the journal editors looked askance. 

THEY INSISTED THAT, at minimum, the Australians add to their title, ". . . for Small Systems and Short Timescales." But by whatever name, the paper in the July 26 Phys Rev Letters announces a discovery that, in the era of nanotechnology, has startling implications: For brief periods, tiny particles can suck up entropy, converting heat from their surroundings into useful work. 

That's what chemist Denis Evans of Australian National University in Canberra theorized in 1993. In the microworld, predicts his Fluctuation Theorem, systems can briefly violate the Second Law. Computer simulations validated the theorem, but as Dr. Evans says, "There's nothing like an experiment to convince people." 

To do that, his colleague, Edith Sevick, floated latex beads 6 microns (millionths of a meter) across in water. Then she used "optical tweezers," an infrared laser whose light pressure confines a bead between two beams, to drag one bead at a time through the water. 

The beads turned Second Law scofflaws. Water molecules in random ("Brownian") motion knocked into each bead, transferring energy to it for as long as two seconds. It was the micro version of a refrigerator sucking up the energy in that tub of water and leaving behind ice. So, although the Second Law bars that, it seems to let a nanomachine run on the Brownian motion in a drop of water, at least briefly. 

THE SECOND LAW formally applies only to collections of zillions of particles -- a refrigerator, a closet, a living creature. "The Law does not preclude fluctuations on small scales and short times such as these," says physicist David Harris of the American Physical Society, which is reminiscent of the way quantum laws apply to the microworld but apparently not to the macroworld. 

The results could complicate things for nanomachinists. Molecular-scale devices with the "Fantastic Voyage"-like ability to motor through blood vessels and clear obstructions, or to pluck toxic compounds from the air and water, are still only dreams. But some components -- nanoactuators and nanosensors -- exist. "If we're going to build nanomachines," says physicist Chris Jarzynski of Los Alamos National Laboratory, "we'll have to take into account that they'll be subject to this effect," either running better than normal or behaving erratically. 

Creationists often invoke the Second Law to argue that life could not have begun from nonlife, let alone evolved from pond scum into Gwyneth Paltrow. The contention is, the Second Law prevents systems from growing more organized and complex with time -- absent the hand of God. 

But if the microworld can violate the Second Law, "biological machinery might take advantage of this," says Dr. Evans. Molecules could briefly extract energy from their surroundings, combining in ways that would otherwise be impossible in practice. The loophole in the Second Law -- for tiny objects for short periods of time -- might be big enough to let miracles through. All of life may be 6-5 against, as Damon Runyon said, but violations of the Second Law in the microworld might let a long shot come in. 

--- 

You can send comments and questions to me at sciencejounal@wsj.com. 

Document j000000020020802dy820000k


More Like This

 Article 246 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: Developments to Watch 

WHEN ASTRONAUTS GLOW, TIME TO GO 

By Aliya Sternstein Edited by Neil Gross 
212 words 
5 August 2002
BusinessWeek 
55 
Number 3794 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

A Man in a white spacesuit adjusts his headpiece, prompting a laser to scan his retina for molecular sensors just a few billionths of a meter thick. A red light warns that radiation is accumulating in his white blood cells. Maybe it's time for a sojourn on earth. 

This isn't Tom Cruise in a summer blockbuster. Within 10 years, NASA astronauts could be using such headgear to monitor their exposure to deadly radiation in space. So says University of Michigan immunologist James R. Baker Jr., whose team has just received a three-year, $2 million grant from NASA to pursue his invention in collaboration with NanoBio Corp. of Ann Arbor, Mich. Baker's blood sensor consists of minuscule polymers, called dendrimers, which self-assemble into balls just 5 nanometers wide. To these balls, scientists attach fluorescent tags that glow when they are in the presence of proteins from dying cells. Inhaled in a cloud by an astronaut, millions of these molecules would be quickly absorbed by the white blood cells--and would glow when radiation began to kill off the cells. 

Photograph: RADIATION EXPOSURE IS A SPACE HAZARD PHOTOGRAPH BY NASA 


Document bw00000020020801dy850001l


More Like This

 Article 247 *******************    


Industrial Management & Technology/Semiconductors 

Building For The Next Chip Boom; Never mind that sales are off by 30%. Chipmakers are racing ahead with snazzy new technology. 

Stuart F. Brown 
2,620 words 
12 August 2002
Fortune 
148[B] [Not Available In All Editions] 
Vol. 146, Issue: 3 Special Investor's Issue/ Retirement Guide 2002 
English
Copyright (c) 2002 ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved. 

The headlong rush of semiconductor miniaturization, it seems, waits for no one. Just because chipmakers are staring at woefully thin order books doesn't mean they can stop following Moore's law, the productivity miracle that has kept the number of transistors on a chip doubling every two years or so. "The pace of technology doesn't change, even during recessions, and if you want to be in the business, you have to continue on through the downturns," says Andy Bryant, chief financial officer of industry giant Intel, whose co- founder Gordon Moore identified the law that thousands of engineers around the world are laboring to obey for another decade or more. The engineers think they can do it--good news for computer users-- but for chipmakers the challenge has never been more severe. 

For starters, business is in the dumps. "The chip downturn is certainly the worst in 15 years," says Linley Gwennap, principal analyst at the Linley Group, a technology-analysis firm in Mountain View, Calif. According to the Semiconductor Industry Association, in 2001 worldwide semiconductor revenues tumbled 30%, to $140 billion-- by far the steepest annual decline ever. 

At the same time chipmakers are struggling mightily to accommodate an unprecedented triple wave of new manufacturing technology now sweeping through the cutting-edge fabs that make the highest-performance and most profitable chips. There is the shift to dinner-plate-sized silicon wafers from salad-plate-sized ones; the replacement of aluminum with copper in the wiring that connects the millions of transistors on a chip; and the latest round of shrinkage in the size of the chip's microcircuits. 

All this fancy new technology has boosted the cost of a new fab to about $2.5 billion, making it painful or impossible for all but the biggest players to keep up with the state of the art. As a result, many semiconductor manufacturers are forming alliances to spread the costs. And large merchant foundries like Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. in Hsin-Chu, Taiwan, have become an enduring feature of the industrial landscape, producing made-to- order chips from designs supplied by smaller players that can't afford their own plants, as well as by customers in the computer, communications, and consumer-electronics industries. 

The new wafers alone would have been a big bite for the fabs to chew. Nearly a foot in diameter (300 millimeters, to be precise), they instantly render obsolete the expensive equipment designed to make chips on 200mm wafers. The 300mm manufacturing technology is so expensive that it is out of reach for companies with annual sales of less than $5 billion or so. But it can give a huge producer like Intel, which makes about a billion chips a year, a surprisingly handsome return on investment and the prospect of rocketing away from competitors--whenever the recovery finally arrives. 

The big wafers' appeal has everything to do with geometry. As a circle increases in diameter, a smaller proportion of its area borders its perimeter, where rectangular chip dies can't fit. Thus less of a 300mm wafer's costly silicon real estate is wasted. In all, a 300mm wafer can yield 2.4 times more chips than a 200mm wafer, boosting a fab's output while cutting its cost per chip. 

Fabs running 300mm wafers look even more space-age than their predecessors, if that's possible. The supersized wafers are so costly to put through the 350 to 500 steps in the manufacturing process that chipmakers have invested in a raft of new equipment to cut the defect rate. In older plants, for instance, wafers were cured in big ovens in which the temperature could sometimes be uneven, causing imperfections. The new fabs have small ovens that cure wafers one at a time instead of in batches. The big wafers are heavy enough, too, that "pods" full of them can't be handled safely and reliably by workers. So the new fabs have overhead monorail transporters that move the pods through the building and nifty little elevator systems that gently lower caddies of brittle wafers to the machines that process them. 

The shift to copper circuitry is largely a product of the proliferation of portable gadgets like laptops and cellphones. Makers of such devices are always pushing for ever higher performance and longer battery life while keeping the temperature down, a special concern in gadgets too small to contain a fan. Making circuits out of copper helps because it has less electrical resistance than aluminum, so electricity flows through it more quickly and without generating as much heat. 

Learning to use copper took years of research and the development of sophisticated new processing equipment. "Copper is not duck soup. Otherwise the industry would have been using it a long time ago," says Ashok Sinha, a senior vice president at Applied Materials in Santa Clara, Calif., the largest of the fab equipment makers and one that has been in the thick of the chipmaking transformation. The $7- billion-a-year company builds most of the major types of machinery used in fabs, including systems that deposit, etch, cook, polish, and inspect the many millions of ultraprecise features on a chip. 

A state-of-the-art chip is a complex microstructure, with eight or nine layers of wiring atop a base incorporating hordes of transistors. Switching to copper created tough problems whose solutions often begat other problems. For one, copper is much more difficult to etch than aluminum. The metal also tends to diffuse into adjacent silicon material and "poison" it, much as leaded gasoline can destroy a car's catalytic converter. 

Chipmakers tried to solve the diffusion problem by applying an insulating layer of silicon dioxide, or glass, to the copper wires. Alas, glass has a relatively high capacitance--the tendency to soak up electrons, slowing current flow. So chipmakers switched to so- called low-K materials--insulators with lower capacitance than silicon dioxide's. But these materials are also softer than silicon dioxide, and without great care, too much of the coating can wash away during polishing, resulting in bad chips. 

To help chipmakers master such quirks and get up and running quickly, Applied Materials developed so-called multimachine modules that take some of the trickiness out of the manufacturing process. "Time to market is everything, and the window of opportunity for a chip design is very small," says executive vice president David Wang. "Within four or five months, the price of a new device drops by half. The fab has got to be productive right away to enjoy a premium price for even a short while." 

As in almost any type of manufacturing, the goal of a process module is to reduce variability from one product to the next, and ideally to make no bad products at all. All of the machines in a module are controlled by a single suite of software. The module also incorporates sensors that gauge dimensions and other parameters while a process is under way. Thus a machine that applies a coating to a wafer can immediately report that the wafer varies slightly in thickness from one side to the other. The module's polishing machine can then adjust its efforts in order to "planarize" the wafer to near-perfect flatness. 

Things were a lot different in the early days of chipmaking, recalls Dan Hutcheson, CEO of the chip-manufacturing research firm VLSI Research in San Jose, Calif. "In the 1960s, a chipmaker bought stand-alone machines that were still pretty researchy. They figured out how to use them on their own, and they lived with the 10% to 20% yields of good chips that came along with this," he says. "Today chipmakers have to come out of the box with yields of 80%, or they're not ready for the market." That's why Applied Materials has invested several hundred million dollars in its process-integration center. 

The most important imperative in chip design is the drive toward miniaturization. The newest chips have circuits whose lines are a scant 0.13 microns wide, about one-thousandth of the breadth of a human hair and down from 0.18 microns in the previous generation. The appeal of tininess is simple: Finer lines mean more transistors in the same space, and the more transistors on a chip, the faster it can do its work. Intel's original Pentium chip, introduced in 1993, had three million transistors. Today's Pentium 4, which is similar in size, crams in 52 million transistors. That's why Moore's law is such a big deal. 

Each successive generation of feature shrink brings new puzzles. The elements on the new 0.13 micron chips, for example, are so tiny that insulating and conductive layers are only 25 atoms thick-- fiendishly difficult to apply with consistency. Applied Materials developed new control software and feedback sensors to ensure that any wafer drifting off the specs is detected and fixed right away. 

So far the industry has shifted less than a tenth of its capacity to 0.13 microns. Yet the next step is already in the offing. This fall both Intel and Taiwan's TSMC will start rolling out 0.09 micron chips. Intel's version, a microprocessor code-named Prescott, will contain more than 100 million transistors. The new chips will be the first to get to wear the sexy prefix "nano" (as in nanotechnology, the science that will one day build micromachines atom by atom), because their line widths translate to 90 nanometers. The R&D people at the chip companies and their equipment suppliers are busy working on generations of shrinks beyond 90 nm too (see box), which will bring plenty more engineering excitement. 

Or so the high priests of chip design believe. There are still financial questions as immense as the transistors are tiny. Even if technology can keep pace with Moore's law for another decade or more, will chipmakers be able to afford the new equipment they'd have to buy every two years? Will enough customers have any use for the ultra-mega-turbo chips the fabs would spit out? 

Andy Bryant at Intel remembers running a study for Gordon Moore years ago when the company was debating whether to replace its 286 microprocessor with the more powerful 386 model. The study concluded that, based on the computer applications of the day, the upgrade wouldn't generate a sufficient return on investment. "Gordon said, 'I agree with everything you say, and I don't see why people need that much power,' " recalls Bryant. " 'But this is what we do, and if the software comes, maybe it will work.' And of course it did." Now that he's CFO, Bryant still questions the financial sense of rendering Intel's product line obsolete every two years. So far, the answer has always been the same: The faster, the better. 

FEEDBACK sbrown@fortunemail.com. Stories from the Industrial Management & Technology section can be found at fortune.com/imt. Executives in manufacturing and research and others eligible to receive FORTUNE's Industrial Edition can subscribe by calling 888- 394-5472. [SIDEBAR] 

Taking light to the limits of the extreme 

Chipmakers don't have to look very far ahead to see an obstacle that could derail Moore's law. A few generations from now the teensy features on a chip will be smaller than the wavelength of the light currently used to produce them. Thus the photolithography machines, or steppers, won't be able to keep pace in the miniaturization race. 

Today's steppers beam deep-ultraviolet light through sets of stencil-like masks that project precise images of the chip's intended circuitry onto silicon wafers treated with photosensitive chemicals. When line widths get down to about 50 nanometers-- minuscule enough to achieve a truly awesome milestone, the billion- transistor chip--steppers will need a light source with a shorter wavelength. 

A consortium of chip companies spearheaded by Intel is banking on extreme-ultraviolet light for the next leap forward. The consortium, EUV Lithography, which includes IBM, Motorola, and others, is tapping teams of bright types from traditionally rivalrous federal weapons labs in Livermore, Calif. Their aim: to overcome the technical hurdles to a commercially usable EUV stepper, which are far from trivial. 

Consider this unhelpful attribute of extreme-ultraviolet light: It is completely absorbed by most materials, including air and glass. The work-around for the air problem was to enclose parts of the machine in a vacuum chamber. The glass problem posed a bigger brain teaser. Optical devices like steppers are full of glass lenses, and masks are made from transparent quartz patterned with chromium metal. The answer was to shunt around the EUV light using precisely curved mirrors with special multilayer coatings that reflect it. To beam the desired circuitry pattern onto a photosensitive wafer, the team replaced traditional transmissive masks, which would gobble up all the EUV light, with reflective ones. These are made by patterning a precise image of the chip features onto an absorptive background on an extremely flat piece of glass. The mask then projects an EUV image of the chip features onto the silicon wafer. 

Developing the light source itself was the final challenge. A powerful laser beam focuses on a supersonic jet of xenon gas, which forms a plasma from which EUV light can be filtered and put to work. The hard part is getting the thing to shine brightly enough to produce 80 300mm wafers per hour, which is the pace of work on a busy fab line. 

The consortium's proof-of-concept EUV stepper--called the Experimental Test Stand--has the shiny, exotic appearance of a Star Wars weapons experiment. Indeed, Charles Gwyn of Intel, the program's director, compares the task of making a chip with features smaller than 70 nanometers to printing perfectly aligned, successive images the size of a quarter down here on Earth from an orbiting space shuttle. "The devil is in the little details in making such a complex system work right," he says. Intel expects delivery of the first prototype in 2005. 

The NAM/FORTUNE Manufacturing Index 

Still feeling confident 

Manufacturers remained upbeat in the second quarter, though 

cautious in their spending and hiring plans. In a survey of 265 

companies by the National Association of Manufacturers and 

FORTUNE, 82% of large firms said they were optimistic, up from 

80% three months earlier. Among smaller manufacturers (employing 

fewer than 1,000) the upbeat mood eased slightly. 

Sales prospects look better but not dazzling. Large 

manufacturers expecting sales to increase up to 5% over the next 

12 months outnumber, by 55% to 39%, those betting on a bigger 

improvement. Still, the percentage of big firms planning to 

boost capital spending more than 5% has jumped from 7% to 25% 

since the third quarter of 2001. 

Hiring plans suggest employment may improve in the second half 

of this year. Only 21% of large manufacturers expect a drop in 

payrolls over the next 12 months, while the rest plan to take on 

more workers. Most smaller firms also plan to hire. 

Quote: "Time to market is everything, and the window of opportunity for a chip design is very small." 

Caption: COLOR PHOTONew foot-wide wafers like Intel's yield more than twice as manychips as the smaller kind. COLOR PHOTOSandia Labs' prototype prints chips using extreme-ultravioletlight. COLOR CHART: FORTUNE CHARTOutlookPercent of manufacturers with a positive business outlookSmall and medium-sized companiesLarge companies 


Document fortu00020020722dy8c0000o


More Like This

 Article 248 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

WHEN ASTRONAUTS GLOW, TIME TO GO 

By Aliya Sternstein Edited by Neil Gross 
213 words 
12 August 2002
BusinessWeek 
69 
Number 3795 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

A man in a white spacesuit adjusts his headpiece, prompting a laser to scan his retina for molecular sensors just a few billionths of a meter thick. A red light warns that radiation is accumulating in his white blood cells. Maybe it's time for a sojourn on earth. 

This isn't Tom Cruise in a summer blockbuster. Within 10 years, NASA astronauts could be using such headgear to monitor their exposure to deadly radiation in space. So says University of Michigan immunologist James R. Baker Jr., whose team has just received a three-year, $2 million grant from NASA to pursue his invention in collaboration with NanoBio Corp. of Ann Arbor, Mich. Baker's blood sensor consists of polymers called dendrimers, tiny balls just 5 nanometers wide that were designed and synthesized by the team. To these balls, scientists attach fluorescent tags that glow when they are in the presence of proteins from dying cells. Inhaled in a cloud by an astronaut, millions of these molecules would be quickly absorbed by the white blood cells--and would glow when radiation began to kill off the cells. 

Photograph: RADIATION EXPOSURE IS A SPACE HAZARD PHOTOGRAPH BY NASA 


Document bw00000020020808dy8c0001s


More Like This

 Article 249 *******************    



25 Ideas for a Changing World -- Health 

21: Minimal Medicine New treatments aim to be less traumatic, shorter, cheaper, and more effective 

By Catherine Arnst 
1,227 words 
26 August 2002
BusinessWeek 
150 
Number 3796 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Here's one of your worst medical nightmares. On June 5, Dean Monahan, a 42-year-old steelworker in Reading, Pa., was scheduled for an angiogram, a common medical procedure used to determine if plaque is building up in a patient's arteries. Monahan had experienced some pain in his arm and neck while exercising, which could indicate a blocked artery. He checked into Reading Hospital & Medical Center at 7 a.m., the angiogram was performed at 11 a.m., his arteries were declared completely clear, and he checked out at 4. 

By 6:30 that night, Monahan had a temperature of 103. He rushed back to the hospital, where the staff discovered that he had contracted pneumonia during his nine hours there. ``I was out of work for a month and flat on my back for a good 10 days,'' says Monahan. ``I see now how old people succumb to pneumonia. It really saps all your strength.'' 

What's particularly scary is that Monahan's story is not all that unusual. The Centers for Disease Control & Prevention calculate that 90,000 deaths in 2000 were caused by hospital infections, making the microbes that swarm our medical centers the fourth-largest cause of death in the U.S. Then there are the medical errors committed in U.S. hospitals that kill anywhere from 44,000 to 98,000 people each year--more than die from highway accidents, breast cancer, or AIDS. Consequently, one of the goals of just about any new medical treatment under development today is to eliminate, or at least minimize, hospital stays. 

Thus the watchwords in forward-looking medical circles are ``minimally invasive therapies.'' These are diagnostic and treatment strategies aimed at reducing the trauma, cost, and duration of medical care while, hopefully, increasing efficacy. The phrase encompasses a wide range of technologies, including high-definition imaging, robotics, miniaturized sensors, high-intensity sound waves, tissue engineering, and stem-cell manipulation. Some techniques are already indispensable in today's operating theaters; some are still years in the future. 

There are, however, potential dangers in this rush to minimize medicine. ``Just switching to a less invasive therapy isn't enough,'' warns Dr. David W. Rattner, a surgeon who oversees minimally invasive therapies at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. ``You need to prove that it's more effective.'' Finding companies to commercialize these technologies is also a challenge, he says. 

To that end, the Center for Minimally Invasive Surgical Therapies was established in Boston in 1993 to coordinate clinical and industrial research. Its members are researching techniques for the treatment of heart disease, stroke, cancer, and trauma. A typical effort: Dr. Edward P. Ingenito of Brigham & Women's Hospital in Boston is developing a nonsurgical method for removing damaged lung tissue in emphysema patients. His plan is to inject a biopolymer that will collapse and scar over the target area of the lung, thus reducing its volume. 

Some minimalist therapies have already proven their worth. Laparoscopy, in which surgeons insert tiny cameras and long narrow instruments through incisions in the body, has been used since the late 1980s to repair knees and other joints, but the technique is slowly being applied to internal organs as well. City of Hope Cancer Center in Los Angeles has led the way in using laparoscopy for one of the most dreaded operations, removal of a cancerous prostate gland. Surgeons make five small holes rather than the standard six-inch incision, cutting blood loss by 50% and greatly reducing recovery time and hospital stays. Although studies have not confirmed whether the operation causes fewer side effects than standard surgery, it is much more easily tolerated. Dr. Timothy Wilson, director of urologic oncology at City of Hope, predicts that this procedure will one day be performed on an outpatient basis. 

The next generation of surgical tools may not break the skin at all. At Brigham & Women's, doctors are testing sound waves--a variation of the technology used to illuminate fetuses in the womb--to blast fibroid tumors and precancerous breast lesions without making a single incision. A beam of high-intensity ultrasound is focused on a patient lying inside a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner. The soundwaves penetrate the skin to eradicate the tumors. The hope is that the system, which was developed by an Israeli joint venture of GE Medical Systems and Elbit Medical Imaging Ltd., called InSightec, will replace hysterectomies and mastectomies and might be used for brain tumors. ``If you think about surgery, it's sort of medieval,'' says Dr. Darrell Smith, a Harvard University radiologist who led a clinical study of the InSightec system. ``We're trying to get more elegant in the way we do this. It's kind of like Star Trek.'' 

Science fiction analogies are common in the minimally invasive field, where talk of nanotechnology and wireless sensors abounds. At a recent electronics symposium, University of Michigan professor Kensall D. Wise, a pioneer in the field of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), described a future in which electronics implanted in the body could cure Parkinson's disease, deafness, and blindness. Wise described a microsystem, now in clinical trials, that uses intelligent implants to detect an epileptic seizure and deliver electronic stimulus and drugs to patients who may not know that an attack is under way. He also predicted the development of intelligent stents that, when placed in an artery, would tell doctors if the vessel had reclogged without the need for an angiogram--the procedure that caused Monahan so much trouble. 

Hospital operating rooms themselves should also become safer. Doctors at Mass General, led by Dr. Rattner, hope to do their first procedure within a month in an ``operating room of the future''--a surgical theater full of computers, radio sensors, and sophisticated imaging equipment. Every person and object that enters the room will carry a radio-frequency ID tag. If a nurse approaches the patient with the wrong medicine, a scanner will sound an alert. It will also raise an alarm if doctors start preparing the wrong site on the body--a common mistake in hospitals. The patient will be operated on remotely using robotic arms inside an advanced MRI machine that updates the image every second or less, allowing surgeons to view their progress in real time on a video monitor. Computers will provide the exact coordinates of the tissue to be repaired. 

Rattner predicts that it will be several years, at least, before such an operating room becomes commonplace. In the meantime, just hope you'll stay out of the hospital. 


Doing the Least Damage
HIGH-FREQUENCY ULTRASOUND
Blasts tumors with focused sound waves that destroy diseased tissue without
cutting skin
LASERS
Specialized lasers combined with advanced scanners dissolve blood clots and
open arteries with little risk of stroke
MICROSENSORS
Tiny microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) could detect and control epileptic
seizures, calm tremors associated with Parkinson's, or detect plaque buildup
in arteries
TISSUE ENGINEERING
Degradable polymer grids could be placed in damaged tissue, providing a base
for organs to regenerate or act as a slow-release delivery system for drugs


Photograph: NONINVASIVE THERAPIES: Keeping people out of hospitals PHOTOGRAPHS BY BERNDT/CUSTOM MEDICAL STOCK PHOTO 


Document bw00000020020822dy8q0002w


More Like This

 Article 250 *******************    



Technology 

H-P Announces It Has Produced One of the Tiniest Circuits Ever 

By David P. Hamilton 
487 words 
10 September 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B4 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Scientists at Hewlett-Packard Co. said they have produced one of the world's tiniest working computer circuits in a significant nanotechnology development, although they were forced to backpedal on a claim that they were the first to make such a "nanoscale" device. 

The group, led by chemist R. Stanley Williams at H-P's corporate laboratories, said it was able to build a working computer-memory device so small that a few thousand of them could fit on the end of a human hair. The device, measuring only about 40 millionths of an inch on a side, is capable of storing 64 "bits" -- the ones and zeroes of computer data. 

Today's mass-produced memory chips hold more than a million times as much data, but the experimental H-P device stores data 10 times more densely. If the techniques used to build the device can be scaled up over time, the work could potentially lead to memory chips so large they could store most of the information now held in the Library of Congress. 

H-P is clearly interested in commercializing the work, although it remains at a fairly early stage, and experts are reluctant to predict which nanoelectronics techniques will lead to advanced computing devices -- if any of them do. 

Details of the H-P work, however, were difficult to evaluate. Dr. Williams's group decided to make its presentation to a general audience at a symposium in Stockholm instead of to a scientific conference of other experts, and hasn't yet published any technical papers on the work. Such papers are generally subjected to peer review, in which other experts examine them anonymously before they are published. 

Contacted ahead of the symposium, other scientists in the field declined to comment on the H-P team's results, citing a scarcity of scientific detail in an advance copy of H-P's press release. Dr. Williams said he will present the work at other conferences over the next few weeks and said the group has already submitted manuscripts describing its research to scientific journals. 

H-P's eagerness to publicize Dr. Williams's results may have led it to overstate at least one of its claims. In a release describing the work, H-P touted what it said was "the first" nanoscale device to combine memory and additional circuitry that shuttles data in and out of the memory. At the same symposium, Harvard University chemist Charles Lieber, another nanoelectronics expert, said his laboratory has also produced such devices using a different technique. Dr. Lieber said he has previously presented his work at other scientific conferences and has submitted it for scientific publication. 

"As of this morning, we were under the impression it was the first ever," Dr. Williams said. "Charlie Lieber of Harvard has perhaps tied it." 

Document j000000020020910dy9a0002j


More Like This

 Article 251 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

SUPERCONDUCTORS, SAY CHEESE 

Edited by Otis Port 
198 words 
16 September 2002
BusinessWeek 
60 
Number 3799 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Why certain ceramic compounds become superconductors at relatively high temperatures still baffles the world's physicists. But new research from the University of Illinois is helping to unravel this enigma and could lead to better superconducting materials-perhaps even one that works at room temperature. Currently, so-called high-temperature superconductors must be cooled with liquid nitrogen to at least -225F. 

Physicist Ali Yazdani's team has devised a way to visualize critical atomic structures in these ceramic materials-specifically, the copper-oxide layer. "This is the layer that's responsible for all the exotic properties," he says. The image above, published in Physical Review Letters last month, was hailed as providing the first-ever glimpse of this layer. The large red and blue shapes are orbital spheres of electrons around copper atoms. The small dumbbells are oxygen-atom orbitals, and the grape-like shape is the tip of a scanning tunneling microscope. 

The Urbana-Champaign researchers also turned up what Yazdani terms "a big surprise": Electrons injected into this layer don't always behave as theory predicts. His team has proposed a model to explain that finding. 

Document bw00000020020912dy9g0001r


More Like This

 Article 252 *******************    



Recent Change in Stock Listings 

32 words 
25 September 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
C3 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Among recent stock-listing changes on the Nasdaq National Market, Altair Nanotechnologies Inc. is now trading on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market using same symbol ALTI. 

Document j000000020020925dy9p0002m


More Like This

 Article 253 *******************    



Short Interest Highlights 

1,888 words 
25 September 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
C13 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Largest Short Positions 


Rank                 Sep 13        Aug 15       Change



                         NASDAQ
 1  Nextel Communic   111,656,825  82,322,603  29,334,222
 2  Cisco Systems Inc  71,286,637  76,202,489  -4,915,852
 3  Level 3 Communicat 61,329,157  58,422,407   2,906,750
 4  Comcast Corp A Spl 59,693,128  58,142,346   1,550,782
 5  Microsoft Corp     58,723,025  56,485,433   2,237,592
 6  Intel Corp         57,578,559  54,984,965   2,593,594
 7  JDS Uniphase       55,784,649  52,607,576   3,177,073
 8  Amazon.com Inc     47,345,476  43,668,045   3,677,431
 9  Applied Materials  46,115,643  47,085,177    -969,534
10  Oracle Corp        44,790,644  56,920,126 -12,129,482
11  Dell Computer      44,781,287  45,333,014    -551,727
12  Ericsson (LM) Tel  43,864,726  24,038,805  19,825,921
13  Charter Communic   39,432,151  37,684,475   1,747,676
14  Yahoo! Inc         38,360,651  42,142,195  -3,781,544
15  Qualcomm Inc       30,614,540  25,706,726   4,907,814
16  Juniper Networks   30,499,465  33,991,595  -3,492,130
17  PMC-Sierra Inc     24,210,777  24,424,200    -213,423
18  eBay Inc           23,700,866  24,627,783    -926,917
19  Amgen Inc          23,013,543  26,989,801  -3,976,258
20  Sun Microsystems   22,453,649  21,338,192   1,115,457
21  USA Interactive    22,031,040  20,716,267   1,314,773
22  KLA-Tencor Corp    21,191,978  20,246,861     945,117
23  EchoStar Comm      20,974,778  20,218,484     756,294
24  XM Satellite Radio 20,231,728  16,752,222   3,479,506
25  Network Appliance  19,706,570  21,447,760  -1,741,190
26  WebMD Corp         18,713,205  20,121,432  -1,408,227
27  Finisar Corp       18,408,634  19,239,839    -831,205
28  ESS Technology     17,268,136  16,803,126     465,010
29  Veritas Software   17,096,523  18,514,662  -1,418,139
30  Sirius Satellite   17,037,944  18,094,144  -1,056,200
                    Largest Changes
Rank                 Sep 13        Aug 15       Change
                           NASDAQ
    INCREASES (in shares)
 1  Nextel Communic   111,656,825  82,322,603  29,334,222
 2  Ericsson (LM) Tel  43,864,726  24,038,805  19,825,921
 3  Qualcomm Inc       30,614,540  25,706,726   4,907,814
 4  Amer Cap Strategies 9,023,193   5,315,149   3,708,044
 5  Amazon.com Inc     47,345,476  43,668,045   3,677,431
 6  Western Wireless   14,461,563  10,961,899   3,499,664
 7  XM Satellite Radio 20,231,728  16,752,222   3,479,506
 8  JDS Uniphase       55,784,649  52,607,576   3,177,073
 9  InterMune Inc       8,184,378   5,033,106   3,151,272
10  Level 3 Communicat 61,329,157  58,422,407   2,906,750
11  NVIDIA Corp        16,009,024  13,304,727   2,704,297
12  Siebel Systems     15,661,076  12,960,869   2,700,207
13  Conexant Systems   10,066,249   7,454,800   2,611,449
14  Intel Corp         57,578,559  54,984,965   2,593,594
15  Acclaim Entertain  12,069,206   9,699,668   2,369,538
16  PanAmSat Corp       4,188,885   1,934,067   2,254,818
17  Microsoft Corp     58,723,025  56,485,433   2,237,592
18  SONICblue Inc       7,809,547   5,635,446   2,174,101
19  Andrew Corp         9,279,899   7,157,286   2,122,613
20  Xilinx Inc         11,163,941   9,045,208   2,118,733
    DECREASES (in shares)
 1  Oracle Corp        44,790,644  56,920,126 -12,129,482
 2  Verisign Inc       14,077,801  20,806,536  -6,728,735
 3  Ariba Inc           8,760,435  15,450,610  -6,690,175
 4  Knight Trading Grp   1,364,38  86,293,052  -4,928,664
 5  Cisco Systems Inc  71,286,637  76,202,489  -4,915,852
 6  Palm Inc            6,407,088  10,561,486  -4,154,398
 7  Amgen Inc          23,013,543  26,989,801  -3,976,258
 8  Linear Technology   8,575,888  12,374,858  -3,798,970
 9  Yahoo! Inc         38,360,651  42,142,195  -3,781,544
10  Juniper Networks   30,499,465  33,991,595  -3,492,130
11  Vignette Corp       1,813,356   5,115,018  -3,301,662
12  Broadcom Corp      16,711,307  19,348,891  -2,637,584
13  MedImmune Inc       6,407,910   9,014,387  -2,606,477
14  Applied Micro Cir   3,695,706   6,162,493  -2,466,787
15  Sanmina-SCI Corp   11,065,400  13,360,428  -2,295,028
16  PeopleSoft Inc      8,048,583  10,334,460  -2,285,877
17  SpeedFam-IPEC       1,014,782   3,293,311  -2,278,529
18  Maxim Integrated    8,151,574  10,414,386  -2,262,812
19  IDEC Phrmaceutic   14,207,126  16,384,543  -2,177,417
20  Openwave Systems    2,057,298   3,997,537  -1,940,239
21  Microtune Inc       2,458,631   4,316,054  -1,857,423
22  Atmel Corp          8,757,784  10,571,872  -1,814,088
23  Network Appliance  19,706,570  21,447,760  -1,741,190
24  Qiagen NV           4,686,808   6,408,247  -1,721,439
25  Leap Wireless Int   7,090,131   8,743,414  -1,653,283
             Largest Short Interest Ratios
  The short interest ratio is the number of days it would take to cover
the short interest if trading continued at the average daily volume for
the month.
                           Sep 13    Avg Dly    Days to
                         Short Int     Vol-a     Cover
                           NASDAQ
 1  ParkerVision Inc      1,708,655  14,586      117
 2  Creo Inc              1,385,433  15,756       88
 3  Sports Resorts        1,499,319  17,611       85
 4  Spherix Inc             678,055   8,188       83
 5  Terra Networks        6,173,410  80,494       77
 6  Richardson Electr       925,015  12,830       72
 7  GSI Commerce Inc      2,668,573  37,857       70
 8  Trans World Enter     2,768,718  39,785       70
 9  Aware Inc             3,686,043  54,577       68
10  Centennial Comm         971,767  14,566       67
11  Cryptologic Inc       1,297,526  20,424       64
12  HealtheTech Inc       1,953,420  31,527       62
13  Research Frontrs      1,840,769  29,526       62
14  1-800 Contacts        3,824,619  61,194       62
15  Zix Corp              6,266,215 103,007       61
16  Pain Therapeutics     1,339,938  22,178       60
17  BriteSmile Inc        5,216,508  87,845       59
18  Drexler Technol       2,210,829  38,449       58
19  FPIC Insurance        3,475,395  60,289       58
20  Aphton Corp           1,773,988  32,565       54
  Issues that split in the latest month are excluded.
The largest percentage increase and decrease sections are limited to
issues with previously established short positions in both months.
                    Largest % Increases
Rank                     Sep 13        Aug 15       Change
                           NASDAQ
 1  Grupo Fin Galacia     49,349       1,002       4,825.0
 2  Fuji Photo FilmADS   707,726      14,911       4,646.3
 3  Interplay Entertn    522,476      33,045       1,481.1
 4  Lesco Inc            207,842      20,026         937.9
 5  CPB Inc               57,554       6,839         741.6
 6  j2 Global Communic 2,199,617     310,473         608.5
 7  Incara Pharmaceut     63,014      10,531         498.4
 8  Yellow Corp        1,204,327     206,320         483.7
 9  Steel Technol        188,899      33,993         455.7
10  ebookers PLC          75,417      13,674         451.5
11  GeneLabs Technol     498,047      90,773         448.7
12  Aber Diamond Corp     77,221      14,531         431.4
13  Amer Natl Fin'l      118,942      22,877         419.9
14  Dendreon Corp        509,099     116,287         337.8
15  Ashworth Inc          75,143      19,306         289.2
16  Roadway Corp         833,498     223,383         273.1
17  Arkansas BestCorp  1,153,885     373,182         209.2
18  Digene Corp          403,312     136,182         196.2
19  Netro Corp           448,924     160,866         179.1
20  PSS World Medical  1,205,059     447,330         169.4
21  Peregrine Pharma   1,454,353     568,846         155.7
22  Osteotech Inc        341,664     138,531         146.6
23  Novatel Wireless     287,449     121,820         136.0
24  MicroStrategy Inc    757,327     322,193         135.1
25  M-Systems Flash      264,471     113,316         133.4
26  AEterna Labs         245,861     108,168         127.3
27  PanAmSat Corp      4,188,885   1,934,067         116.6
28  America Svc Grp      101,239      48,854         107.2
29  Dobson Communic      432,134     213,711         102.2
30  Cyberonics Inc     1,219,645     603,689         102.0
31  Allos Therapeutics 2,306,689   1,180,555          95.4
32  Axcan Pharma Inc     126,058      66,760          88.8
33  Midwest Banc Hldg    132,972      70,640          88.2
34  Ericsson (LM) Tel 43,864,726  24,038,805          82.5
35  Coinstar Inc       1,957,229   1,074,660          82.1
                    Largest % Decreases
Rank                    Sep 13        Aug 15       Change
                           NASDAQ
 1  Ameriana Bancorp          53     69,950       -99.9
 2  Neurobiolog Tech         921    232,930       -99.6
 3  Factual Data Corp        464     92,322       -99.5
 4  Advancd Envr Recy      1,082    177,118       -99.4
 5  Lihir Gold Limited ADS 3,100    367,961       -99.2
 6  Express Scripts Tr       793     49,961       -98.4
 7  BioDelivery Wts A      6,806    121,183       -94.4
 8  Cardima Inc           45,006    525,242       -91.4
 9  Crucell NV            25,089    222,394       -88.7
10  AESP Inc               9,861     85,254       -88.4
11  LogicVision Inc        7,714     62,995       -87.8
12  BioDelivery Scien     16,086    123,364       -87.0
13  MerLyn DJIA           24,650    183,624       -86.6
14  TradeStation Group    18,411    117,794       -84.4
15  Insmed Inc            39,747    248,532       -84.0
16  Verint Systems Inc   135,895    799,676       -83.0
17  BE Semiconductor      21,300    109,397       -80.5
18  Information Res       43,584    216,506       -79.9
19  Knight Trading Grp 1,364,388  6,293,052       -78.3
20  Smartserv Online      98,509    429,943       -77.1
21  Methanex Corp        121,308    520,710       -76.7
22  Amedisys Inc          39,310    165,100       -76.2
23  MerLyn S&P Mkt Idx   316,500  1,313,216       -75.9
24  Rigel Pharmaceut      30,886    124,430       -75.2
25  Keynote Systems      183,885    703,524       -73.9
26  Captaris Inc          34,207    125,777       -72.8
27  Avici Systems Inc    139,516    463,910       -69.9
28  SpeedFam-IPEC      1,014,782  3,293,311       -69.2
29  ebix.com Inc          32,968    106,931       -69.2
30  Gevity HR Inc         80,175    238,305       -66.4
31  Nanophase Technol     41,369    122,010       -66.1
32  NEC Corp ADS          50,266    148,249       -66.1
33  Vignette Corp      1,813,356  5,115,018       -64.5
34  Champps Entertain     59,342    161,405       -63.2
35  Universal Amer Finl   34,379     90,808       -62.1


Document j000000020020925dy9p0002a


More Like This

 Article 254 *******************    



Uplink 

ASAP Records 

Edward Clendaniel 
342 words 
7 October 2002
Forbes ASAP 
16 
Volume 170; Issue 07 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Nanotechnology--It's a small, small world. 

Category: Smallest machine Record holder: Electronic charge measuring deviceRecord: 20 nanometers (one-fiftieth the size of a human hair) 

Designed by physicist Michael Roukes of the California Institute of Technology, the world's smallest machine could make it possible to create new magnetic resonance imaging machines to examine single molecules.Caltech's Jim Hone says the machine may make it possible to do MRIs locally, rather than having the entire body scanned. "We're trying to get to the point where we can detect what's going on atom by atom," he adds. 

Bet you didn't know: 

The world's smallest pen, designed by researchers at Northwestern University, can draw lines as thin as 15 nanometers. 

Category: 

Smallest musical instrumentRecord holder: 

NanoharpRecord: 

Six-by-eight micrometers, or about the size of a red blood cell 

You can't see it. Nor can you hear it. Carved on a whim out of a single crystal of silicon by researchers at Cornell University, the nanoharp can play real music, although to pluck its strings you would need a silicon rod capable of sending out radio frequency voltage signals. 

"The main point is not to suggest that people are going to be playing smaller and smaller instruments but to show the fabrication possibilities," says Graham Kerslick, associate director of the Nanobiotechnology Center at Cornell. 

Bet you didn't know: 

Kerslick says an even smaller instrument--a saxophone--was created at Cornell for then-President Clinton. But the sax can't play a note. 

Category: 

Smallest measured massRecord holder: 

Georgia Institute of TechnologyRecord: 

22 femtograms 

Using carbon nanotubes one micron in length, researcher Walter de Heer of Georgia Tech in 1999 weighed a 22-femtogram speck of graphite. A femtogram is a million billionth of a gram. De Heer hopes to use his instrument to weigh individual viruses. 

Bet you didn't know: 

A carbon nanotube is the strongest known material, 20 times as strong as steel, and stronger even than a diamond. 

Document fb00000020020920dya70000d


More Like This

 Article 255 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

A TEENSY-WEENSY WELDER FOR NANO WORKERS 

By Adam Aston Edited by Catherine Arnst 
159 words 
7 October 2002
BusinessWeek 
127 
Number 3802 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Nanotubes offer an ever expanding list of promising uses, from ultrafast chips to superstrong materials. But the tools are still evolving to arrange these cylinders--with walls just one carbon atom thick--into building blocks for useful structures. Now, a molecular-scale welding method is taking scientists one step closer to harnessing nanotubes. A team led by Pulickel Ajayan, a professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., uses a high-voltage electron microscope to heat the area where two single-walled nanotubes overlap. The process creates bonds with similar strength and electrical properties to the surrounding nanotubes. ``We can begin to control the arrangement and conductivity of the carbon strands,'' Ajayan says. Next, he wants to see if cheaper ion beam guns used in microelectronics manufacturing can accomplish the same task. 

Photograph: HOT SPOT: Tubes are heated by electron beams 


Document bw00000020021003dya700009


More Like This

 Article 256 *******************    



Technology & Health 

IBM Scientists Claim Advance in Circuitry 

176 words 
25 October 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B5 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

ARMONK, N.Y. -- International Business Machines Corp. scientists say they have created molecular-scale computer circuits in experiments using a scanning tunneling microscope. 

The scientists created a chevron-like pattern of carbon-monoxide molecules on a copper surface and then demonstrated they could make the molecules fall in a cascade motion in response to a digital signal. 

The findings are to be published today in Science Express, the online edition of Science magazine. 

Physicist Andreas Heinrich, a team member, said "The molecule cascade is not only a novel way to do computation, but it is also the first time all of the components necessary for nanoscale computation have been constructed, connected and then made to compute. It is way smaller than any operating circuits made to date." 

The scientists, who work at IBM's Almaden research labs in San Jose, Calif., also include Christopher Lutz, Jay Gupta and Donald Eigler. 

IBM said the development has the potential to accelerate sharply the pace of invention in integrated circuits. 

Document j000000020021025dyap0001r


More Like This

 Article 257 *******************    



Cover Story 

HIGH TECH IN CHINA Is it a threat to Silicon Valley? 

By Bruce Einhorn in Shanghai, with Ben Elgin, Cliff Edwards, and Linda Himelstein in San Mateo, Calif., and Otis Port in New York 
3,577 words 
28 October 2002
BusinessWeek 
80 
Number 3805 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Tang Tingao is apologetic as he guides a visitor through his lab at Fudan University in Shanghai. This is one of China's top institutions, and as head of Fudan's microelectronics institute, the 63-year-old Tang oversees some of the most advanced semiconductor research in the country. But by global standards, the conditions are primitive. The embarrassed scientist points to a row of old made-in-China furnaces for silicon preparation. In any other country, they would be obsolete. 

Well, they will soon be passe in Shanghai, too. Despite a global technology slump, this city is in the middle of a high-tech spending binge. Government-linked Chinese companies and foreign multinationals are lavishing billions of dollars on new facilities. Chinese chip plants are mushrooming in a new science park just across the Huangpu River from the Fudan campus. In return for a toehold in the Chinese market, foreign companies are helping Tang upgrade the equipment in his institute and train his staff. Such assistance could one day help Fudan become a semiconductor research hub for Shanghai, Tang says--``just like Stanford or Berkeley in Silicon Valley.'' 

A Chinese Silicon Valley. A few years ago, the idea would have been laughable. China was a place to make sneakers, not semiconductors. But to many of Silicon Valley's movers and shakers, the specter of Chinese competition is no longer a joke. Recent developments inside China--and a few beyond its borders--have reshaped the lens through which foreign multinationals view the world's most populous country. Over the next 10 years, China will become ``a ferociously formidable competitor for companies that run the entire length of the technology food chain,'' predicts Michael J. Moritz, a partner at Sequoia Capital in Menlo Park, Calif., one of the Valley's premier venture-capital firms. 

Consider some of China's milestones in science and tech: -- Chinese universities granted 465,000 science and engineering degrees last year--approaching the total for the U.S. -- There are plans to crank out chips from seven new semiconductor plants by 2004, putting China on track to be the world's second-largest chip producer. -- A team at the Beijing Genomics Institute was among the first of several scientific teams to decode the rice genome, landing on the cover of the journal Science. -- Two homegrown vendors of network switches, Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp., have opened offices in the U.S. and Europe and snatched contracts from the likes of Cisco Systems and Nortel Networks. -- China has been launching satellites for years and intends to begin manned space missions next year. 

China's growing high-tech prowess, and its ability to apply its expertise to defense matters, are bound to be topics of discussion this month when Chinese President Jiang Zemin arrives in the U.S. for a summit at President Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex. Beijing's tech stature adds a new element to its often-troubled relationship with Washington. Bush wants China's support in the war on terrorism and the campaign against Saddam Hussein. At the same time, GOP hawks see China as one of the biggest long-term threats to U.S. security and economic preeminence. The hawks are opposed, however, by many executives from Corporate America who regard China as a lucrative market and are eager to offer the equipment and expertise it needs to meet its technological goals. 

Mind you, China's achievements don't make it a high-tech superpower today. Despite scientific coups like the rice genome, China's companies can boast of little useful intellectual property and no paradigm-bending industrial innovations. China's equity markets are still largely closed to private startups, starving entrepreneurs of capital. Its software industry pales beside India's, not to mention Silicon Valley, and its stunted pharmaceutical sector hasn't come up with a single blockbuster drug. The country has yet to curb widespread piracy, a step that is essential for innovation to flourish. It also continues to suppress free speech and censor the Internet. And even now, says Andy Xie, managing director of Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, ``America is sucking away all the best and the brightest in China.'' 

Furthermore, by most standards of comparison, China's high-tech output doesn't measure up. Total research spending hovers at about $11 billion, vs. more than $233 billion for the U.S. China's semiconductor production came to $2.9 billion last year, compared with $71.2 billion in the U.S. PC ownership and Internet penetration both hover at 2% of the population--far below Japan, South Korea, and most Western countries. 

Nevertheless, China's early tech successes have convinced many Western executives that there are greater--and more worrisome--things to come. Even without strokes of innovative genius, China's energetic engineers can continue to clone the world's most advanced telecom and computer gear, as Huawei has done so successfully with network devices, and market them globally at rock-bottom prices. The total cost of an engineer in China, including benefits, is about $15,000 per year, notes Michael E. Marks, CEO of contract manufacturer Flextronics International Ltd. In Silicon Valley, the cost is 10 times that. For now, management at most Chinese companies is too weak for them to compete globally with Cisco, Intel, or Microsoft, Marks believes. Still, he says, ``China has enormously talented engineers, and they all want to work. They are adding experience very rapidly. I would understand why U.S. electronics companies would be worried.'' 

Most business folks already appreciate China's amazing achievement in manufacturing, raising itself from a Maoist backwater in the late 1970s to the world's most prodigious exporter today. And China isn't content to be a subcontractor. After more than a century of backwardness, the Chinese, who invented gunpowder, paper, and the compass, intend to regain their tech primacy. ``You can't be economically very powerful but technologically very backward,'' says Wang Mingwei, head of the Chinese National Center for Drug Screening in Shanghai. ``China is a proud nation and wants to have a say in the science arena, rather than be dominated by the Westerners and the Japanese.'' 

Foreign companies privately might like to put the brakes on the Asian giant. But economics dictate that they do the opposite. To secure access to China's huge, growing market, dozens of foreign multinationals are entering research partnerships that are certain to upgrade the country's capabilities. Such pressure is frowned upon by the World Trade Organization, but try telling that to General Electric, Intel, Matsushita Electric, and Siemens, all of whom have shared valuable tech knowhow. Most recently, Microsoft Corp. announced plans to spend $750 million on a far-ranging research and training program. ``China has discovered its leverage,'' says Erhfei Liu, Hong Kong-based chairman of Merrill Lynch China. ``The Chinese say, `If you want market access, give us technology.''' 

In public, executives at Western companies make no apologies for technology transfer. ``China is the most vigorous market for the U.S. [and] its most vigorous competitor,'' declares Intel Corp. Chairman Andrew S. Grove. But behind closed doors in Silicon Valley, Brussels, and Tokyo, China's science-and-technology agenda has become a sort of Rorschach test. For every executive like Grove who looks at the inkblots and sees opportunities outweighing risks, another senses palpable danger to Western interests. This camp is influenced by a variety of disturbing defense issues. A July report by the U.S.-China Security Review Commission, a committee composed of a dozen congressional appointees, noted ominously that Beijing is hard at work acquiring ``dual-use'' technology that can not only boost the economy but also enhance the military and challenge American dominance in Asia (page 86). 

Both responses to the Chinese Rorschach test--allure and alarm--are justified. And if there were only two viewpoints, the China-technology debate would be relatively clear-cut. But there are mitigating arguments that challenge the simple friend-or-foe construct. First, China's low-cost manufacturing base has driven down the price of consumer gadgets and all manner of industrial components. So shoppers in U.S. malls can take home $70 made-in-China DVD players, and industrial manufacturers such as GE can slash prices on everything from light bulbs to aircraft engines. Second, as the world's scientific community grapples with overwhelming problems such as cancer, AIDS, and global warming, China's armies of newly trained scientists will be an important asset. 

Individuals may attach different priorities to each of these points. But however you rank them, they lead to the same conclusion: China is destined to become a science-and-tech superpower. It won't happen in 2003 or even 2005. But in the words of Gordon Astles, president of Asian operations for Cisco Systems Inc., China has ``the sheer size, the will, the economic growth, and the openness to being part of the world. That says that they have a greater opportunity than ever before.'' 

Beyond consumer gadgets and electronic components, China's impact on global technology is most evident in the ultracompetitive world of network equipment. Manufacturers such as Huawei and ZTE, which have long competed capably inside China, have targeted the breadbaskets of Western networking giants (page 91). 

Huawei, which notched $2.4 billion in 2001 sales, recently won deals in Britain and Germany and in June launched a U.S. subsidiary dubbed FutureWei Technologies. Huawei's international revenues rocketed 210% in the first half of 2002--an otherwise dismal period for equipment vendors. The company is counting on overseas sales to offset disappointing results in China, where the reorganization of state-owned China Telecom has stalled demand. ZTE, meanwhile, has opened research and development centers in New Jersey, California, and Texas and is targeting sales in Russia, India, and other emerging markets that are still growing despite the telecom depression in the West. ``We are not as sophisticated as Lucent, Ericsson, or Cisco, but the gap has shrunk a lot,'' says Sun Zhenge, director of ZTE's technology center in China. ``We will have the ability to exceed them in three to five years.'' 

Networking executives in the West should not dismiss such talk as empty bravado. Because of China's inexpensive, highly skilled workforce, its equipment vendors can beat Cisco and Nortel on price by 25 to 50 percentage points. And while their high-end networking gear still trails that of North American rivals, Huawei and ZTE can compete when it comes to small or midsize networking products. ``They're very serious about North America and Europe,'' says Michael Howard, principal analyst at market watcher Infonetics Research. ``At every turn, Huawei will compete with Cisco at a much lower price.'' 

In most respects, China's tech trajectory differs from the one Japan mapped out many decades earlier. Instead of trying to shut foreigners out of the market, Beijing encouraged domestic stars such as Huawei and ZTE to embrace alliances and research collaborations with foreign companies. ``There's no `not-invented-here' syndrome in China,'' says Zhou Zhen-hong, China managing director of Agere Systems, the Lucent Technologies spin-off, which announced in May that it was forming an R&D partnership with ZTE. Thanks to such efforts, Zhou believes that Chinese companies will be able to catch up to foreign rivals faster than Japan's lumbering giants could. Cooperation ``closes the gap between the local companies and the multinationals,'' he says. 

Like the network-equipment makers, China's cellular-handset manufacturers hope to build on their strength in their immense home market to become global players. With more than 189 million subscribers, China has the world's largest population of mobile-phone users. That means companies that serve the market gain vast manufacturing economies of scale. Plus, they are in a position to pioneer novel phone-based applications--such as wireless instant messaging--that could have international appeal. For now, Motorola Inc. and Nokia dominate the Chinese market. Nonetheless, handset makers in the West have been steadily losing share in China to local rivals with names like Bird, TCL, and Konka. 

Multinational manufacturers are responding by increasing their Chinese presence. Motorola has invested $3.4 billion in China, with a large part going to finance a giant chip plant in the northern city of Tianjin. Nokia has opened a sprawling industrial park for itself and its suppliers outside Beijing. German giant Siemens makes some 35% of its cellular phones in Shanghai and early this year shifted a big chunk of its R&D team from Germany to Beijing. Siemens also is working with Chinese partners to develop a new standard for third-generation cellular service, aimed at the mobile Internet. ``If China makes it, it will be a world standard,'' says Peter A. Borger, president of Siemens Shanghai Mobile Communication Ltd. Certainly, Siemens benefits. But a win in global-cellular standards would also vault China's players onto the international playing field. 

Taiwan figures prominently in Beijing's tech strategy. Although the island's government remains at odds with Beijing's leaders, Taiwanese businesses have invested about $70 billion in China, and more of those investments are going toward big-ticket items such as semiconductor plants. In September, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. announced plans to invest $900 million in its first China fab. The Chinese market ``may take off pretty rapidly,'' says TSMC Chairman Morris Chang. In addition, Taiwan's chip execs are now managing several contract-manufacturing plants in the Shanghai area. From this base, Taiwan-educated Richard Chang, a Texas Instruments Inc. veteran, wants to take on the world's silicon giants. He heads Shanghai's Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., a well-connected newcomer that includes among its investors Goldman Sachs and Toshiba Corp. 

With support from Beijing, ethnic Chinese from around the world are following in the footsteps of Taiwanese and forging new links to China. Shoucheng Zhang, 39, holds joint professorships in the physics departments at Stanford and at Beijing's Tsinghua University. The latter post was funded by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing, who aims to entice more overseas Chinese scientists to spend time on the mainland. Zhang has been bitten by the same bug: He's vice-president of Hua Yuan Science & Technology Assn., a San Francisco nonprofit that promotes academic and commercial exchanges between the U.S. and China. The association boasts about 2,500 members in the U.S., including academic scientists as well as partners in prominent venture-capital firms such as IDG, Walden International, and WI Harper. 

In short, Beijing is learning to harness Chinese intellect outside its borders and turn it into a competitive advantage. This has already contributed to strides in technical fields such as superconductivity, nanotechnology, and optics. Says Zhang: ``China has been investing very wisely in the sciences. They are doing the right thing.'' And while no one has attempted to measure the overseas brain trust China could tap, it is clearly sizable, says Juan Enriquez-Cabot, director of the Life Science Project at Harvard Business School: ``When you go into laboratories throughout the world, some of the brightest people are Chinese.'' Among the foreign-born scientists and engineers working in the U.S., nearly 40,000 hail from China, more than from any other country. 

The talent pool demonstrated its ability when China took on the arduous task of sequencing the rice genome, a feat that could one day lead to a cornucopia of hardy bioengineered crops and lay the groundwork for advances in genomic medicine. More than 500 researchers affiliated with the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) worked on the project. But it might not have come to fruition without Seattle-based Gane Ka-Shu Wong, a 41-year-old Canadian physicist and post-doc at the University of Washington School of Medicine who was one of the project's instigators and lead scientists. The Cornell University-educated Wong and his colleague, Jun Yu, realized their task would require a team of skilled but inexpensive technicians. So in 1998 they persuaded CAS to set up the Beijing Genomics Institute, which housed the rice project. ``We needed people to turn the cranks,'' explains Wong. ``It's factory work.'' One area where China clearly lags the West is the field of computer software. But Beijing has adroitly applied pressure on U.S. companies to help it catch up. For example, Microsoft's mammoth financial commitment to upgrading China's skills was prompted partly by the need to play in the world's largest potential consumer-software market. There was also, however, a concern that the Chinese government would throw its might behind ``open-source'' programs such as Linux, which could be a disastrous blow to Microsoft's Windows franchise. 

Microsoft isn't the only one feeling the heat. China's population gives it extraordinary leverage in the design of next-generation programs. Take the area of network standards and operating systems. The Internet wasn't designed to support today's teeming cyberpopulation. Now, the global network is running out of ``Internet protocol'' addresses--a problem that is especially acute in the Chinese-speaking world. So Beijing is pushing for a rapid transition to a new generation of Internet hardware and software known collectively as Internet Protocol Version 6, or IPV6. 

The U.S. has dragged its feet in this area because, among other things, the transition requires ripping out a lot of existing infrastructure and could render some of today's widely used computer and network software obsolete. But when it comes to the current generation of software, ``China doesn't have a significant installed base,'' says AT&T software maven Steven M. Bellovin. ``If China goes ahead and deploys Version 6 first, they could be the first to write new software while the rest of the world plays catch-up.'' This scenario meshes nicely with China's larger strategy. Developing a world-class software industry ``is absolutely at the top of the agenda,'' says Derek Williams, Oracle Corp.'s Hong Kong-based executive vice-president. And in the case of IPV6, even if U.S. companies don't choose to help China, others will. Nokia has already connected 10 Chinese universities using a router platform and software developed partly at its R&D center in Beijing. 

Certainly, the country has a lot of ground to make up. China's software industry generated revenues of just $850 million last year, compared with over $6 billion for India's. But market researcher Gartner Group estimates that the Chinese industry's revenue will reach $1.9 billion this year. And if Beijing gets results from its efforts to build software parks, provide incentive packages for programmers, boost English training programs, and enforce protections on intellectual property, the country could achieve parity with India in commercial software by 2006. At that point, in Gartner's admittedly bullish estimate, both India and China will be reaping more than $27 billion a year in sales of software and application-service revenue. That's close to $60 billion in annual revenues not booked in Silicon Valley. 

This thought shouldn't elicit dread or dismay from Western executives. China is not demonic, and it is not monolithic. But it is poised to move up the technology ladder at a pace unprecedented among nations. The global industrial landscape will be permanently recast, as will the competitive balance among countries and companies. And no leap of technological imagination, threatening or benign, will be beyond China's reach. 


Why China Is Spooking Silicon Valley
PRECEDENTS
Chinese manufacturers have successfully made the leap from electronic toys to
chips, telecom, and software
SILICON
Their progress has been especially rapid in semiconductors, which are the
building blocks for all other tech products
PARTNERSHIPS
To play in China's huge domestic market, Western companies must partner with
Chinese players, speeding their advance up the tech ladder
HUMAN CAPITAL
China boasts a huge pool of bright techies who work at a fraction of what
their counterparts in Silicon Valley are paid
SPIRIT
Shanghai, in particular, boasts entrepreneurial energy, fine universities, and
increasingly, an international climate--just like the Valley


Photograph: FRESHMEN AT FUDAN Some of the university's programs are being funded by multinationals hoping to tap Chinese talent and markets PHOTOGRAPH BY FRITZ HOFFMANN Photograph: LIFTOFF IN GANSU PROVINCE PHOTOGRAPH BY AFP PHOTO Photograph: INSPECTING HARDWARE IN SHENZHEN PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HU/ASSIGNMENT ASIA Photograph: ROLLING OUT CHIPS IN WUXI PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN BRADSHAW/GETTY IMAGES Illustration: Chart: HOW CHINA STACKS UP AGAINST GLOBAL COMPETITORS Taking advantage of its immense size and consumer clout...China has already hit some impressive technology benchmarks ...but it still trails far behind the West...especially in scientific output. CHARTS BY LAUREL DAUNIS-ALLEN/BW Photograph: COME ON HOME A Chinese businessman (back to camera) pitches prospective applicants at a Silicon Valley job fair sponsored by Shanghai and business groups in the Valley PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK NACKE/WOODFIN CAMP Illustration: Chart: SILICON HABIT Photograph: CODE BREAKERS Canadian physicist Gane Ka-Shu Wong, with colleague Jun Yu, persuaded the Chinese to fund a project that led to successfully sequencing the rice genome PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN SMALE 


Document bw00000020021024dyas00026


More Like This

 Article 258 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: Developments to Watch 

SUPERCONDUCTORS, SAY CHEESE 

Edited by Otis Port 
201 words 
4 November 2002
BusinessWeek 
58 
Number 3806 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Why certain ceramic compounds become superconductors at relatively high temperatures still baffles the world's physicists. But new research from the University of Illinois is helping to unravel this enigma and could lead to better superconducting materials-perhaps even one that works at room temperature. Currently, so-called high-temperature superconductors must be cooled with liquid nitrogen to at least -225F. 

Physicist Ali Yazdani's team has devised a way to visualize critical atomic structures in these ceramic materials-specifically, the copper-oxide layer. "This is the layer that's responsible for all the exotic properties," he says. The image above, published in Physical Review Letters last month, was hailed as providing the first-ever glimpse of this layer. The large red and blue shapes are orbital spheres of electrons around copper atoms. The small dumbbells are oxygen-atom orbitals, and the grape-like shape is the tip of a scanning tunneling microscope. 

The Urbana-Champaign researchers also turned up what Yazdani terms "a big surprise": Electrons injected into this layer don't always behave as theory predicts. His team has proposed a model to explain that finding. 

Document bw00000020021031dyb400028


More Like This

 Article 259 *******************    



Departments 

Forbes.com Contents 

486 words 
11 November 2002
Forbes Magazine 
14 
Volume 170; Issue 10 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Investment NewslettersInvestment Guru Picks and PansMatthew Schifrin 

Are we entering into a new bull market, or a rally that will soon turn into a bear market trap? Richard Band, editor of Profitable Investing, is advising readers to ride this bear rally until the end of the year. Former perma-bear Joe Granville thinks we may be entering a new bull market. Find out what other top investment gurus think by clicking on the newly redesigned www.forbes.com/newsletters. Each day we serve up a host of articles on the picks, pans and prognostications of the top investment newsletters such as Josh Wolfe's Nanotech Report and David Fried's Buyback Letter. We also offer a free weekly guru e-mail newsletter, Adviser Q&A,newsletter excerpts, video bios and message boards. 

LifestyleThe Worst American Cars EverMichael Frank 

As columnist Jerry Flint has written, this is a new golden age for American cars. But over the years Detroit has turned out some clunkers. It's still hard to explain why any automotive executive in his right mind would have green-lighted, say, the AMC Gremlin. Come with Forbes.com for a bad trip down memory lane, then cast your vote for the worst vehicle ever. 

Daily News Commentary 

Forbes.com is updated throughout each business day with news and analysis from FORBES editors. 

Quotes and Research 

Check the latest price quotes, news and financial data for U.S. equities. New advanced charting tools let investors compare and analyze stocks by up to 20 factors. 

News and Alerts by E-Mail 

Your choice of our new articles, sent either as alerts or via our 30 free, scheduled e-mail newsletters. 

Forbes.com Video Network 

Watch Robert Hormats of Goldman Sachs, Brian Halla of National Semiconductor and other chief executives discuss the economy and business outlook at the 8th annual Forbes CEO Conference. 

Premium Services 

Business & Investing. 

Desktop stock research and tracking services. 

Lifestyle. 

Find cars, real estate, wine, art and collectibles for sale. 

Forbes. 

Our Bookstore, Lists, Conferences, Sponsored Webcasts and the Forbes Collection. 

The Shop@Forbes. 

Featuring Forbes Signature series wine. 

Forbes MagazineTargeting Cancer 

Visit us online for the latest news about the pharmaceutical companies--AstraZeneca, Genentech, Merck, Roche and others--working on cancer cures. Search our online archive for previous FORBES articles on the fight against this disease. 

Forbes on Fox 

Go to Forbes.com to watch video clips from our Forbes on Fox TV show and vote in polls from the Flipside segment. 

Search Our Online Archive 

Search by title, topic, author or date, and download, print or e-mail current or archived articles. 

Forbes GlobalChina Rich List 

The Web version of our ranking of China's 100 richest businesspeople lets you sort the list in ways you choose. Online only: exchange listings and tickersymbols for the millionaires' public companies and their signs under the Chinese zodiac. 

Document fb00000020021025dybb00001


More Like This

 Article 260 *******************    



Health 

Speed Reader; Craig Venter sequenced the genome. Next step: fast, cheap scans of your DNA. 

Robert Langreth 
1,601 words 
11 November 2002
Forbes Magazine 
187 
Volume 170; Issue 10 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Craig Venter sequenced the genome in record time, ushering in a new era of drug discovery. Next step: fast, cheap scans of your DNA that you can take home. 

Gene guru J. Craig Venter stunned the scientific world in 2000 when his company, Celera Genomics, deciphered the entire human genetic code in just over two years with an R&D budget of $270 million. A consortium of government researchers took 13 years and spent $2.5 billion to reach the same finish line. (The government says it only spent $300 million on actually sequencing the genome.) 

But Venter says even his rapid-fire breakthrough didn't come nearly fast enough. He used 300 high-speed DNA-sequencing machines, costing $300,000 apiece, to map the human genome. Yet Venter dreams of a day, a decade or more away, when doctors will routinely and rapidly churn out the individual maps of thousands of patients, spotting the genetic typos that will cause an array of dysfunction and disease. 

The problem: A single sequencer operating around the clock would take at least three years to crank out the raw unordered genetic code of just one person. "There is no way existing machines will get us where we need to go," Venter says. 

Now his mission is to get as much human DNA read as fast as possible. Venter left Celera in January and has begun outfitting a new $30 million nonprofit sequencing lab in Rockville, Md., to be funded by government grants and his own foundation. In the next few years he plans to decode the key portions of the DNA of a thousand individuals of various nationalities and ethnic groups, at a cost of about $500,000 each. Donors with the cash to help out are welcome. 

Initially Venter will do the sequencing on existing machines optimized for speed, but he has a bigger goal in mind: to hasten the arrival of a new generation of ultrafast sequencers that can read the genome far faster, at far lower cost. Within ten years, he predicts, before a newborn leaves the hospital its entire genome will be burned onto a DVD, which will be given to the parents along with the birth certificate. Every time a new gene is linked to a disease, people will be able to search their genomes using their home PC to learn whether they are at risk and decide what, if anything, to do about it. "I want to make the genomics revolution meaningful to ordinary people," Venter says. 

He hopes to jump-start the efforts of a coterie of tiny biotech firms developing high-speed gene-scanners, in the same way that his work at Celera Genomics forced the government's Genome Project to accelerate its efforts. The new startups, including Perlegen Sciences in Mountain View, Calif., U.S. Genomics in Woburn, Mass., 454 Corp. in Branford, Conn. and Solexa Ltd. in Cambridge, England, aim to use recent advances in nanotechnology to decipher mysteries at the amino acid level. 

"I use other people's technology to drive the science that I want to do. The science I do, at the scale I've done it, helps, in turn, to drive the technology," Venter says. "It is like working up a ladder." He always has thrown himself into his work: Venter recently revealed that one of the five different DNA samples used by Celera to map the genome was his own. 

The epochal breaking of the human code was only a start. Knowing the sequence of one genome isn't enough; what matters more is knowing the differences among thousands of genomes. Only by understanding the subtle genetic variations among hundreds of thousands of people--by sifting out the molecular misnomers that predispose someone to a particular malady--will scientists learn how to better predict, diagnose and ultimately cure difficult diseases like diabetes, schizophrenia and heart failure. 

In the long term, researchers hope a detailed understanding of the genome's permutations will lead to a new era of customized medicine, in which drug regimens, diagnostic tools and medical devices are tailored to individual genetic codes. 

It won't happen without speedier sequencers. Today's dishwasher-size automated machines are technological marvels, made by Applied Biosystems (a sibling of Celera; both are owned by Applera Corp.) and Amersham Biosciences. But their limitations rapidly are becoming apparent. 

Most important, they can't read the 3 billion letters--A, C, T and G, for the nucleotides adenine, cytosine, thymine and guanine--in the human genome from beginning to end, the way one reads a book. The laser detectors on the machines aren't sensitive enough to see a single DNA molecule. So lab workers must slog through two weeks of tedious preparation, chopping the DNA into fragments 500 to 1,000 letters long and making millions of copies of each. 

The machines glean many thousands of copies of the same strand to eventually determine the identity of individual letters. Once the fragments are sequenced, their relative positions on the genome still must then be laboriously reconstructed by a computer. 

Perlegen, a spinoff of DNA chip pioneer Affymetrix, is taking advantage of the fact that any two humans are 99.9% genetically identical. Why bother deciphering new genomes from scratch if you can just look for the 0.1% of DNA that is different? The company adapted Affymetrix's technology to create chips that each contain an array of 60 million fragments of DNA, ripped away from their complementary strands; the entire human genome fits on 200 chips. 

The strands work like a molecular Light Brite, lighting up in those places where there's a mismatch between the chip's everyman DNA and that of the person being tested. Already this year Perlegen has scanned the DNA of 25 healthy individuals--at a cost of $1.5 million a pop--and found 2 million frequently occurring genetic variations. It plans to cull these variations to find patterns of particular mutations that predispose patients to major killers such as heart failure, as well as genetic alterations that increase the risk of side effects from prescription drugs. 

U.S. Genomics is even more ambitious: It hopes to develop a machine that can directly read a single DNA molecule. Solving this problem first requires designing a device that can manipulate the fragile molecule without shredding it. The startup appears to have solved this tricky feat with its refrigerator-size GeneEngine. 

Its heart is a silicon chip containing several channels that narrow into a funnel. A string-like DNA molecule, coiled up in a clump in its natural state, flows down the channel and into the funnel, where a maze of miniature rods forces it into a straight line. Then the channel narrows to a mere 600 nanometers wide, allowing only one DNA segment to pass at a time. Two lasers read fluorescent chemical tags that have been attached to the DNA molecule. 

The whole process takes just 30 seconds, and the device is able to handle DNA strands up to 200,000 base pairs long, says Chief Executive Eugene Chan, who founded the company in 1997 while attending Harvard Medical School. He believes the GeneEngine will be handling whole chromosomes--every human cell has 23 pairs of them, and each chromosome holds 50 million to almost 300 million letters of DNA--within two years. 

But U.S. Genomics' GeneEngine can only spot 1 in every 1,000 DNA letters. That may be good enough for mapping key signposts on chromosomes or rapidly locating a few key gene variations, says Venter, who recently joined the company's board. But an ideal sequencer of DNA it is not, at least for now. 

The harder part will be designing a detector that can distinguish between two adjacent letters on a DNA strand, which are half a nanometer apart, a small fraction of the wavelength of light (which makes it impossible to see them). That is the goal at a shop a few miles down the road from U.S. Genomics, at Harvard, where biophysicist Daniel Branton and colleagues hope to design a better detector by passing DNA, one letter at a time, through a microscopic "nanopore" in a silicon membrane. 

Their team, funded with $3 million by the military and Agilent Technologies, creates its nanopores by bombarding a wafer of silicon nitride with argon ions to form one tiny hole a few nanometers in diameter (a nanometer is one-billionth of a meter). That's just wide enough for a single DNA molecule to slip through. The concept is to place the membrane in a solution containing DNA and use opposing electrodes to force the DNA molecule through the nanopore at up to 1 million letters per second. Each letter will be read by detecting slight changes in the nanopore's electrical properties. 

"The long-term goal is a handheld instrument the size of a calculator" for detecting DNA, says Branton, who hopes to have a prototype in a few years. "We may never get there, but we're going to learn an awful lot of useful information along the way." He sees a potential spinoff: a biosensor that could function as an early-warning system by detecting a single molecule (or cell) of a chemical or biological weapon. 

Back in Rockville, Venter says he is "excited and encouraged" by the progress so far. So many promising technologies are in development, he figures, at least one is bound to pan out. 

Document fb00000020021025dybb0001y


More Like This

 Article 261 *******************    



WEEKEND JOURNAL 

Review / Books: The High Price of Micro Mayhem 

By Robert J. Hughes 
824 words 
22 November 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
W10 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

PREY 

By Michael Crichton 

(HarperCollins, 367 pages, $26.95) 

MICHAEL CRICHTON reportedly got $30 million for a two-book deal with HarperCollins. "Prey" is the first of them. Usually contracts and dollar amounts aren't really relevant to the discussion of a book, but in Mr. Crichton's case, they are. He is more than a brand; he is a business. And "Prey" is blockbuster business. Mr. Crichton has made a career out of novels with clever hooks and topical themes, from germ warfare in "The Andromeda Strain" to genetic havoc in "Jurassic Park" and, in "Prey," a combination of both. 

We're in an age of miniaturization -- microchips and ever-smaller computers run our lives. Things are bound to get smaller and perhaps deadlier, as Mr. Crichton outlines in a footnote-filled introduction. What happens to technology when nano- meets bio-? Mayhem. 

The driving force behind the scientific skullduggery in Mr. Crichton's books is usually corporate greed, and "Prey" is no different. But here he spreads the blame around to biogenetics, nanotechnology (molecular-sized machines) and computers themselves, which can take on a life of their own. This story concerns a rampaging swarm of murderous manmade microparticles. 

The action unfolds as the narrator, Jack, an unemployed computer programmer and now a house-husband, notices things going awry. His baby breaks out in a rash. His bratty kids see ghosts -- or are they crews from a government agency tracking down hazardous materials? Meanwhile, his coolly beautiful wife, Julia, works for the sinister-sounding Xymos Technologies, where she is a rising star in an unregulated world of microscopic engineering, though she doesn't talk about it much. She certainly doesn't mention that her biotechnology company has used one of her husband's computer programs, based on the swarming habits of bees, to create a teensy Frankenstein monster that threatens the survival of civilization as we know it. Uh-oh. 

As luck would have it, Jack is hired to consult for his wife's company just as her behavior becomes more erratic and strange (is she having an affair?). He finds that Xymos has used deadly bacteria for the creation of miniature machines and, at the same time, that microparticles programmed to help the Pentagon photograph danger zones have turned on their makers in a deadly fashion. Swarming nanos lurk outside the corporate building. Then Julia arrives back on the scene, more beautiful than before, and decidedly unhinged . . . . 

This is all very entertaining, in pure page-turner fashion. The story manages to appropriate a wide range of cultural touchstones, from dot-com busts and Silicon Valley downsizing to stay-at-home dads, career-driven moms and corporate whistleblowers. It's as if Mr. Crichton had ordered tapas at the Zeitgeist Restaurant. It's a meal of Zeit lite. 

Mr. Crichton's clever scientific fictions make him a kind of H.G. Wells for our time. His use of topical bugaboos recalls the bravado of 19th-century thriller writer Wilkie Collins, who took on the disastrous effects of the age's flawed marriage and adultery laws in many of his novels. In "Prey," Mr. Crichton's concern is a real 21st-century one, to judge by the worries of various computer-industry analysts and insiders. 

In 2000, Bill Joy, a co-founder of Sun Microsystems, wrote a much-discussed article in Wired magazine warning that with nanotechnology "we are on the cusp of the further perfection of evil." In particular, Mr. Joy felt that 21st-century technologies are so powerful "that they can spawn whole new classes of accidents and abuses." Whether those abuses are preventable -- if not for corporate greed and the demands of personal aggrandizement -- is the subject matter of "Prey." So is the perennial Promethean question, raised here by the self-replicating nature of genetically engineered organisms and machines: Are humans bound to lose control of what they create? 

Alas, Mr. Crichton's literary skills are not as strong as his instinct for a profound subject. So much depends upon keeping the story going that the characters in "Prey" become puppets, to be dispensed with as needed. Early on, Mr. Crichton does attempt to give them shades of humanity, but he abandons character entirely as the story picks up. The more startling developments are thus less powerful than they might have been if we actually cared about the people involved. 

Readers who plunk down $27 or some discount thereof will likely be entertained for the few hours it takes to keep turning the pages of "Prey." Whether they'll be rewarded beyond the plotline is another question, but maybe it's beside the point. This is business, after all. And "Prey" is a good read. But a memorable one? It will linger at least a nanosecond, but not much longer. 

--- 

Mr. Hughes is a reporter for the Journal. 

Document j000000020021122dybm0003c


More Like This

 Article 262 *******************    


Features/Venture Capital 

Too Much Ventured Nothing Gained ; VCs are a hurting bunch. New companies feel their pain. 

Russ Mitchell 
3,390 words 
25 November 2002
Fortune Magazine 
135 
Vol. 146, Issue: 11 
English
(Copyright 2002) 

The venture capital business has a size problem. A monstrous, staggering, stupefying one. Brobdingnagian even. 

In three years, from 1999 to 2001, venture capitalists raised $204 billion to back young companies in what are now known as Bubble Funds. That's a lot of money, but to appreciate the magnitude, match it against the past: Between 1970 and 1998, VCs attracted a total of $132 billion to finance startups. In other words they raised more money in three manic years than they had during the nearly three decades that preceded them. If you include money from previously raised funds, VCs have $252 billion in capital under management today. 

Now consider the pickle in which the industry finds itself. Venture funds run ten years. To earn 18% annual returns for their investors--the low end of historical venture capital returns--the funds would have to create $1.3 trillion in market value by selling or taking public their portfolio companies over the remainder of the decade. 

Think about it this way. eBay is one of the few successes to emerge from the dot-com boom. At its peak, eBay had a $16 billion market value, and its venture backer, Benchmark Capital, made more than $4 billion on its investment. So how many eBays would have to be taken public by the end of a decade for venture investors to achieve 18% returns? More than 325. That's roughly one eBay every 10 days between now and 2010. 

Obviously that's not going to happen. Venture capitalists are stuck with their Bubble Funds and have no clear idea how, when, or whether they'll be able to cash out their assets. Bon French, head of Adams Street Partners in Chicago, a venture capital investor, says the funds raised in 1999 alone are so sick that three-quarters will return zero or less. That's bad news for the pension funds, foundations, endowments, and rich individuals that invest in venture portfolios. They're all locked into ten-year commitments. 

The biggest losers could be the entrepreneurs who depend on venture capital to fund their startups. If new, innovative companies have a tough time raising funds, economic growth will be hard to come by. "Long term, we could lose our edge in a lot of the technology we pioneered,'' says economist Jesse Reyes of Venture Economics. 

However the Bubble Funds work themselves out, it's clear the venture industry is in a world of pain. Some funds have already gone out of business. Many more will follow. The smallest fry are most likely to die. The top firms won't go bust, but even they are vulnerable. If key partners quit to start new funds or just retire to enjoy their wealth, the firms' reputations would suffer. 

The headquarters of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers on Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, Calif., looks like a modern ski lodge, a lofty A- frame of blond wooden beams and plenty of glass. Outside, parked under the trees, are the Jaguars and Porsches, the Z3s and the TTs, with a few secretaries' Civics tucked in between. Standup desks are popular at Kleiner Perkins. On the way to Vinod Khosla's office, several administrative assistants are erect at their workstations, each rolling a plastic ball with one foot to keep their posture fluid. Parked in the corner are two Segways, those goofy scooters that look a little like push mowers. Kleiner is an investor in Segway. 

Khosla is not as well known as the other big wheel at Kleiner, John Doerr. But these days he's more accessible. Doerr, who famously overhyped the Internet in the bubble years by insisting that it was being underhyped, is laying low. It used to be you couldn't read an article about the new economy without seeing a quote from Doerr. Now he can't be found. Maybe it's because one of Kleiner's biggest investment projects, the merger of Excite and @Home, was such a bust. More likely it's his recent troubles with Martha Stewart stock. Doerr and Kleiner both are being sued for allegedly misleading investors before dumping shares in Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, another Kleiner investment. 

The Kleiner firm might as well be called Doerr & Khosla--or perhaps Khosla & Doerr. Kleiner, Perkins, and Caufield are all retired, and Byers gets closer to partner emeritus status every day. 

Khosla is intense. He's considered brilliant but cold and tough. Thin, fit, wiry, he dresses impeccably, even when he's wearing sports clothes. His only bow to whimsy is his shoes, fine brown Italian-looking loafers with leather flaps like those on golf shoes covering the front. 

As far as Khosla's concerned, venture capital has two basic components: fear and greed. There was too much greed during the bubble, and there's too much fear now, he acknowledges. "But fear and greed, that's the American capital-allocation system,'' he says. "It's not a great system, but it's the best there is. It's most efficient in the long run despite the short-term inefficiencies. But we're driven by greed and fear, so we never get the right level of venture capital." 

Doing its part to nudge the balance back toward equilibrium, Kleiner earlier this year in effect handed unspent money back to limited partners, reducing the size of its latest fund by $160 million, to $470 million. Other big-name firms followed suit, some voluntarily, some under pressure from investors. Overall, $4 billion in capital commitments have been returned to limited partners. 

Of the $252 billion in venture capital under management, $90 billion sits unspent. When the 1999 funds were raised, venture managers invested the money fast; by the time the 2000 funds were raised they had already turned skittish. Most of the money has not yet been put to work. One of the supreme ironies of the Bubble Funds is that so much capital is waiting to be invested, but so few funds are willing to do the deed. The reasons are many, but they boil down to one stark fear: A strong IPO market is years away, and any money invested now might drag the performance of the funds down further. 

Where would they put the money anyway? It's unclear what corporations will want once they start buying infotech again. And the payoff for biotech and nanotech investments seems a long way off. "The future of where the next emerging markets are is as cloudy as I've ever seen it," says Geoff Yang at Redpoint Ventures. 

Limited partners have grown impatient. If the money is going to just lie there, they'd rather have some of it back. They have no illusions that there are better places to put that capital to work; keeping the money in cash beats a bum investment by a long shot. The problem is the management fees that venture funds charge limited partners on their capital commitments--between 2% and 3% a year at most funds. That's bearable if you think you'll make several times your money back. But today a venture investor with $10 million in an inactive fund pays $250,000 a year for the privilege of keeping cash under a mattress. The longer the economy stays bad, the more money limited partners will want back. The venture funds are torn. Most know they have too much money to manage effectively. But those fees are sure sweet. 

Khosla and many others in his business prefer not to discuss such matters. They'd rather talk about the help and experience they provide to young companies trying to make their way in the cold, cruel world. "I never say I'm in the venture capital business," says Khosla. "I say I'm in the venture assistance business." People with entrepreneurial aspirations "don't need investors," he adds. "They need coaches." 

Congenital optimists, venture capitalists believe their own funds will thrive, even as the industry suffers in aggregate. "You can't judge a venture fund until five years into a fund," says Khosla. By that time initial investments should start paying off, as startups are taken public or sold, and stock or cash is distributed to the limited partners. The venture industry may need to create 325 eBays, but an individual venture fund needs to create just one or two to earn a respectable return. Not that it's easy. But Kleiner's 1999 fund does include the still private Google, which dominates the Internet search business. "We're on a roller-coaster ride," says Khosla. "When you go high fast, you come down fast. You can either believe in it or not believe in it." 

In his blue blazer, blooming with a pocket handkerchief formed into a golden poof, 67-year-old Dick Kramlich will never be mistaken for an Internet punk. Yet his venture firm, New Enterprise Associates, got caught up in the bubble like everybody else. "My wife calls me a wildcatter," he says. He certainly drilled some major pipe during the new-economy boom. NEA's most recent fund, raised in 2000 when the Nasdaq had reached its zenith, totals $2.3 billion. 

One of the venture industry's patriarchs, Kramlich is a believer. Still, he says, the coming years will sorely test the industry. "It hasn't been this bad since 1968," he says. The venture capital drought that followed lasted nearly a decade, exacerbated by the collapse of the Nifty Fifty growth stocks. 

Kramlich is confident NEA will emerge a winner. Of course. "We're focused on best of breed," he says. "We're just getting to the payoff on this stuff. I mean, broadband to the home is just getting started. Our business is not a short-term business." Still, NEA funds look nothing like they did in the early days, and it's not just a matter of size. Like some other large venture firms, NEA is moving into areas not traditionally considered to be venture capital. It recently closed deals on ten biotech companies for a total investment of $250 million, but most aren't startups. Several were carved out of big pharmaceutical firms. Historically, venture capital has brought higher returns than other forms of private equity. If bigger VC firms continue to search for safer investments, long-term returns could suffer. 

Whether the definition of venture capital gets stretched or not, Kramlich sees a nasty shakeout that's only now getting started. During the bubble the number of professionals in the venture industry grew to nearly 9,000. Kramlich predicts that by mid- decade, at least a third of them will be gone. 

Another industry veteran, Phil Young, 62, says that can't happen soon enough. Young helped take FedEx public, and Sun Microsystems too. His firm, U.S. Venture Partners, has been around forever but doesn't get much attention. Though its investment record is strong, the firm lacks flash. Other venture firms have built more elegant digs. USVP's offices, down the street from Kramlich's and Kleiner's, could pass for the headquarters of a small Midwestern insurance firm, with plain white walls and cherry-colored cabinetry in the style of those TV-stereo consoles that dominated living rooms in the '50s and '60s. When a colleague, USVP general partner Magdalena Yesil, calls Young a "Renaissance man," his face flushes bright red. 

But Young isn't shy about pointing fingers. The bubble created a "warped view" of venture investing, he says. "It lured a lot of transaction-oriented people, people not accustomed to thinking long term. They were fundamentally oriented toward investment banking. It's unhealthy, and over the long term it's not what venture capital is all about." 

Young and Yesil believe USVP is in better shape than most firms to weather the downturn. Of course. Twenty-six firms raised funds of $1 billion or more in 1999 and 2000. USVP was one of them. But it plans to give no money back to investors; Yesil says no investors have asked. The firm is confident it can squeeze decent returns out of its $1 billion fund. While many firms are cutting back on partners, USVP in recent months added three. Young says people have questioned whether fund sizes have grown too big since the '70s, when he worked on one that invested $52 million. At the very least he believes that for many years to come, the limit has been reached. Since the creation of USVP's billion-dollar fund, the Monday morning meetings of its partners have gone from half a day to all day long. Anything bigger, and the meetings would stretch into Tuesday. 

Ashley Read plays in a different league. Her latest fund at Blueprint Ventures raised $53 million, almost exactly the size of Young's '70s fund. The firm has yet to invest that money: It can't afford to make mistakes. Nonetheless she's pumped, eagerly pointing out research that shows smaller firms on average offer the highest returns in the venture capital business. 

Read, 31, is smart, fit, and ready to rumble. Besides managing venture capital, she's an adventure racer, competing in events like the Eco-Challenge, sort of a deep-in-the-woods 12-day triathlon. She and Blueprint partner Bart Schachter left Intel's venture unit to form Blueprint in 1999, along with industry old-timer Tom Unterberg. Big VC firms get all the attention, but most firms are small. Blueprint has two funds under management, with $138 billion in total capital. 

Times are tough, Read acknowledges, but she believes Bluepoint will prevail. Of course. Unlike her huge competitors, she has no patience for bland niceties about the role of venture financing in the American capitalist system. She gets right to the point. "I don't believe these guys can effectively manage the dollars they have under their belt," she says of the biggest Bubble Funds. They have so much money, she says, that they can't invest several million bucks in a small startup anymore--they wouldn't be able to manage that many investments. So they're stuck investing larger sums in later-stage ventures or seeking other investment alternatives. At that point "it's no longer a venture capital firm," she says. "What is it? I don't know. An investment company? What it is is an accident waiting to happen." 

Read has plenty of incentive to dump on the big boys. After all, the best deals tend to go their way first. The small guys are left with the scraps. But she's fun to listen to anyway. And she makes worthwhile observations: "You look at the personal net worth of some of these guys, and you have to ask yourself, Are they still hungry? When it's so tough today to make a dollar, for anyone with the means to retire or choose which of their planes they'll fly today, going to work to dig themselves out of a hole is not a very attractive proposition." 

Small venture firms achieve high returns by getting in early, when a startup's valuation is low. Established firms say their own results are just as good, and their funds are safer. But it's hard to know. When it comes to returns on individual funds, venture capital is a very secretive business. So Read was overjoyed a couple of months ago when the University of Texas Investment Management Co. made the results of its venture investments public. She saw that the "clubby" established players like Austin Ventures and Morgenthaler Management Partners were performing as badly as anyone. "It gives me personal pleasure," she says. "It's nice to know they're in the same ballpark as everybody else." 

Her joy is not widely shared on Sand Hill Road. The bigger VCs are incensed that the results were released, some of them even threatening to exclude other loose-lipped investors the next time new funds are raised. They claim that they're concerned not about secrecy, but that the results could be misinterpreted. In fact the way VCs report their results is complicated, perhaps intentionally so. Read says, so what? "They say this thing could be misinterpreted. I go...yeahhhhhh. So footnote the goddamn thing!" 

If venture firms are getting squeezed, entrepreneurs are hurting worse. Through the bubble years, valuations placed on new companies seemed to go only up. At every stage of funding entrepreneurs got richer--on paper. 

Now companies are encountering what's known in the venture world as "down rounds." Struggling companies need cash to survive. Instead of prepping their investments for IPOs, VCs are pumping in survival funds. Valuations go lower, founders' stakes are reduced, and some entrepreneurs get so "washed out" that they wonder whether it's worth their time anymore. 

That happened earlier this year to Hau Lee, a business professor at Stanford University and one of several co-founders of a San Francisco startup called Nonstop Solutions, which makes supply-and- demand analysis software for retail chains. With corporate spending in a deep freeze, the company's main backer, Kleiner Perkins, restructured and squeezed the equity stakes of the founders so much that several left the company, according to Lee. The professor says "the new valuations hurt," but he's sticking around, accepting that the world has changed, happy that the company wasn't simply liquidated. 

Some VCs wish more entrepreneurs saw things the way Lee does. "Now is the time to be squeezing money out of the turnip instead of petting the turnip," says Ann Winblad, co-founder of Hummer Winblad Venture Partners. Or as USVP's Yesil puts it, less colorfully, "Our attitude is, you can't protect the past. Investors lost money. I have lost my investments and my time. We're all starting again because we believe there is great opportunity." 

What really worries Lee, however, is not washouts and wipeouts but the fact that a fresh, new generation of entrepreneurs is finding it nearly impossible to get venture backing. "The idea that this is hurting entrepreneurism is certainly true," he says. "I have a number of students with interesting ideas. In the past they wouldn't have hesitated [to start a new company] and try them out, but now they've opted to go work for a conventional company." 

Venture capital is hardly the only way to finance a startup or bring an innovation to market. Some of Lee's students may well boost the economy by creating products and services at the corporations they work for. And bootstrapping has not disappeared--staking a startup with credit cards, money from family and friends, and, eventually, cash flow. In fact most companies start just that way. "Generally what that means is you don't grow as fast," says Jeffry Timmons, a business professor at Babson. "Multiply that by a few thousand companies. It will have a significant impact on the economy." 

The way out of a down market, of course, is economic growth. The minicomputer industry, personal computer industry, networking industry, and the business end of the Internet were all seeded by venture capital. But with so little money going into new ventures today, says Marc Barach, co-founder of Insweb.com, "we're going to be sitting on an empty pipeline. We're eating our young here." 

Quote: "I don't believe these guys can effectively manage the dollars they have under their belt." "We're going to be sitting on an empty pipeline. We're eating our young here." "[Our firm is] focused on best of breed. We're just getting to the payoff on this stuff." "We're driven by greed and fear, so we never get the right level of venture capital." 

Caption: COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE CHOMAS Bart Schachter and Ashley Read of Blueprint Ventures COLOR CHART: SOURCES: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS; THOMAS VENTURE ECONOMICS; NATIONAL VENTURE CAPITAL ASSOCIATION Venture capital's bloat Venture capital under management Payouts to VC investors COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE CHOMAS U.S. Venture Partners' Magdalena Yesil and Phil Young COLOR PHOTO: THOMAS BROENING Kleiner Perkins's Vinod Khosla says VCs are coaches. 


Document fortu00020021112dybp00013


More Like This

 Article 263 *******************    



Northern England Sheds Its Image As a Wasteland --- Porsches, New Construction Give Lie to Old Stereotypes; Investment Brings Luster 

By Tom Mudd and Gonzalo Vina 
Dow Jones Newswires 
895 words 
27 November 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
No Page Citation 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

GATESHEAD, England -- Ian Wrigglesworth stabs a finger toward the far bank of the river Tyne, pointing out Newcastle's first million-pound apartment, part of the gleaming new development in the pristine area near the once-derelict dockside. 

There is "a lot going on here," he says, gazing out at the futuristic, GBP 22 million bridge that links Newcastle and Gateshead, some 300 miles north of London. 

As chairman of the Newcastle Gateshead Initiative, Mr. Wrigglesworth's job is to be upbeat, but the multitude of construction cranes overhead lends support to his optimism. Then there are the four late-model Porsches spotted zooming through Newcastle's central Grainger Town district over the course of an hour-long stroll. 

It is supposed to be grim up north -- an industrial wasteland. At least that's the old line among Londoners and others in southeastern England. 

But the tables appear to be turning. In London, job losses in certain sectors are mounting and have prompted rising gloom, sparking fears that the hot property market could face an early-1990s-style crash. In the north, cities such as Newcastle, Manchester and Leeds have taken on new luster as investment moves away from the traditional manufacturing sectors to the financial and services areas. 

Here, in one corner of the north along the banks of the Tyne, not only is there a high incidence of Porsche-spotting, there also is a flat-out building boom. The Newcastle Gateshead Initiative says the public and private sectors are spending GBP 3 billion in transport, leisure, housing and commercial development over a 10-year period through 2008. That is a lot for an area with a population of about 500,000. 

As for the broader northeast region, Michael Bird, chief executive of the North East Chamber of Commerce, notes that the International Labor Organization's unemployment rate for the long-depressed area is lower in some sections than in London, where the overall rate is 7.5%. 

In the northeast region -- which runs along the North Sea at the Scottish border to North Yorkshire, and includes Newcastle, Gateshead and Sunderland -- the jobless rate is 6.2% this year, a fall of 11.9% over the past year and 24.5% over the past four years, with many of the new jobs replacing ones lost during the post-World War II manufacturing decline. 

London's loss in financial services has been the rest of the country's gain. The International Financial Services London -- a lobby group for the United Kingdom financial-services industry -- says the U.K. had 1.07 million people working in finance in June 2002, unchanged from a year earlier. London has lost several thousand jobs in the internationally driven sector, indicating that the rest of the country -- where positions rely more on domestic demand -- has picked up employment. 

The northeast has been enjoying increased prosperity thanks to new opportunities in sectors such as renewable energy, biosciences and nanotechnology. 

"These are all potential strengths the northeast has that we could develop," says Mr. Bird of the North East Chamber. 

Manchester, meanwhile, is still basking in the glow of hosting this year's Commonwealth Games, which brought in an additional GBP 22 million in spending and created an estimated 6,100 permanent jobs, the city council says. 

There also is joy in neighboring Liverpool. It recently has moved ahead with its plans to build the "Fourth Grace" -- a retail-commercial project on Merseyside valued at up to GBP 200 million that would be on the scale of the world-renowned Bilbao Guggenheim Museum or the Sydney Opera House. That is on top of the years of redevelopment along Liverpool's waterfront. 

Leeds, Yorkshire's principal city, is also adding jobs, says Anne Morgan of the Leeds Development Agency -- to the tune of 36,000 between 1996 and 2000, an estimated 19,000 of those in financial and business services. Unemployment has dropped from 9.6% in 1993 to 2.8% today -- below the U.K. rate of 3.1%, according to government statistics. 

The property market also has been booming in Leeds, she adds. Between 1992 and 2001, some GBP 1.8 billion of commercial and residential property development took place. There is an additional GBP 650 million in projects under construction and some GBP 2.7 billion in the pipeline. Leeds, long known for its textile industries, is now focusing more on financial, business and legal services. 

Those numbers appear anything but grim. Then again, says John Bridge, chairman of One Northeast, the regional development agency, England's more northerly climes never did deserve their stereotype. "The north has been many, many things," Mr. Bridge says with a smile, "but never grim." 

In London, with greater exposure to such hard-hit sectors as global finance, information technology and media and advertising, there are rising concerns. The Bank of England has been so worried that it has cut interest rates to record lows and has contemplated even further reductions. Some say the London gloom is being overplayed by the media because the job losses are starting to hit London's high-flyers, those unaccustomed to being the ones to suffer in a down economy. 

Document j000000020021127dybr0000i


More Like This

 Article 264 *******************    



Science & Technology: Research 

ATTACK OF THE KILLER DUST Relax, it's a novel. Still, nanotech has a scary side 

By Heather Green in New York 
1,192 words 
2 December 2002
BusinessWeek 
103 
No. 3810 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

It's a nightmare scenario: A group of brash Silicon Valley scientist-entrepreneurs, racing against a deadline and desperate to strike it rich, field-test a swarm of micro-robots the size of dust particles in the lonely desert around their Nevada factory. Designed under a military grant, the 'bots are supposed to be the latest in battlefield surveillance. But they quickly morph into predatory, self-replicating swarms. 

Actually, the swarms issue from the keyboard of author Michael Crichton, creator of Jurassic Park and other tales of science-run-amok. Slated for release on Nov. 25, the latest novel, Prey, taps into society's fear of scientists too entranced by their creations to fret about the consequences. And, as in his previous works, Crichton has made a shrewd choice in Prey: He mines the budding field of nanotechnology--the science of the extremely small. ``We're in a social environment that's tremendously disposed to new things,'' Crichton said in an interview. ``But there always is a downside.'' 

The timing of Crichton's novel is both good and bad. It arrives at a juncture when prominent scientists are debating the potential hazards of nanotech research. Yet the plot pales beside the real specter of biowarfare in the post-September 11 world. Compared with the known horrors of a smallpox epidemic, Crichton's sentient, micromechanical swarms feel like the far future--which means real scientists may find the author's treatment ludicrous. But timing aside, the book could serve an important function, prompting the public to contemplate the potential hazards of this new field. ``These technologies have risks,'' acknowledges Neil Gershenfeld, director of the Center for Bits & Atoms at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ``There is great value in taking stock of them.'' 

How implausible is Crichton's latest scare story? Briefed on the plot by BusinessWeek several weeks before Prey went on sale, scientists on nanotech's frontier were mostly dubious. But serious researchers have been kicking around scenarios that resemble Crichton's for years. The latest round of hand-wringing commenced when Sun Microsystems Inc. co-founder Bill Joy published an essay on the topic in Wired magazine in April, 2000. In his piece, the renowned software engineer warned that the convergence of nanotech, genetic engineering, and robotics could trigger unprecedented disasters. 

Some scientists ridiculed Joy's thesis at the time--but Joy has not backed down. If anything, his views have hardened into a stance that radically challenges how science is now practiced. ``We have to limit access to the kinds of scientific information that lets people do these kinds of things in laboratories,'' Joy declared in a TV interview in October. ``That will require regulation of materials and information in ways that we haven't had to do before'' (page 104). 

Threatening or not, nanotech is fast emerging as a fruitful confluence of science and engineering. Once considered blue-sky research, the field has produced such milestones as carbon nanotubes a few hundred millionths of an inch thick that function as the world's tiniest transistors. The U.S. government is pumping $604 million into nanotech research this year--up 30% from 2001--and will raise the ante by 18% in 2003. Biologists, chemists, software engineers, and venture capitalists are flocking to nanotech seminars. Over the past year, venture funds have committed about $437 million to 46 nanotech deals, according to Venture Reporter. 

Even this outpouring of funds, though, won't take the technology to the level Crichton fancifully depicts. Where fiction and science part ways is on the topic of self-replication. The scientists in Prey use cell cultures to breed their nanobots. But Crichton also throws into the mix ``assemblers''--robots no larger than a handful of atoms that construct themselves and other objects atom by atom. The term, popularized in the 1980s, is a red flag to skeptics because the concept is flawed, say Harvard University chemistry professor George M. Whitesides and chemistry Nobel Prize laureate Richard Smalley of Rice University. Even assuming such 'bots could be created, they would never be able to place atoms precisely where they were required, argue both men. 

In the opposing camp, computer scientist and inventor Ray Kurzweil and others say the doubters haven't adequately accounted for the role powerful computers will play in solving such problems. Even fringe nanotech concepts could benefit from trends such as Moore's Law, which holds that the computing power of microchips doubles every 18 months. ``People say we're not going to see self-replicating nanotechnology entities for 100 years,'' Kurzweil notes. ``But we're doubling the paradigm shift for every decade, so we'll get there in 25 calendar years.'' 

Of all the diverse nanotech projects under way, the ones that most closely evoke Crichton's drama are lab experiments on ``smart dust.'' Kristofer Pister, a professor and director of the University of California at Berkeley's Sensor & Actuator Center, is working on such devices, which are now about the size of sand grains and contain sensors. His ultimate goal is to create dust-size particles fitted with silicon intelligence, radios, sensors, and possibly wings. Such grains could be scattered through buildings--or over a battlefield--to monitor the environment and human activity. 

Watching such developments, Crichton takes a sanguine view. ``Even though I write these Crichton stories, I'm quite optimistic,'' he says. Kurzweil also remains undaunted by the downside. ``If we do half as well as we have done with software viruses, we will do well'' in nanotech, too, he predicts. 

Even amid all the contention surrounding this field, scientists seem to agree that Crichton's scare scenarios play a useful role. Under the public's watchful eye, researchers are more likely to proceed with caution--and continue to develop technologies that will help protect us from ourselves. 


The Science in Michael Crichton's Prey
There is some real science in Michael Crichton's tale of a nanotech run
amok--along with pure fantasy. Here are a few plot points where fact and
fantasy diverge:
SELF-REPLICATING MICROMACHINES
FICTION: In Prey, malevolent micro-robots replicate and thwart scientists'
efforts to exterminate them.
FACT: Nanotech researchers are creating new materials and devices with unique
chemical properties and functions. The goal is to have the devices assemble
themselves--but that's decades in the future.
MOBILE SWARMS
FICTION: Crichton's swarms move through the air, relying on built-in solar
cells with several hours of storage capacity.
FACT: Scientists are developing sensor-laden ``smart dust,'' which could be
used, say, to sniff out biological or chemical weapons. Such sensors might be
solar-powered and wind-borne, but self-navigation is a stretch.
EMERGENT BEHAVIOR
FICTION: The predatory swarms in Prey exhibit intelligence far exceeding the
abilities of the individual micro-robots.
FACT: Bees construct hives and defend them in ways that surpass the genetic
programming of individual bees. Such ``emergent behavior'' could appear in
swarms of smart machines--but probably not for 50 years.


Document bw00000020021127dyc20000y


More Like This

 Article 265 *******************    



Science & Technology: Research 

Biotech: Can We Keep the Genie in the Bottle? 

By Heather Green 
348 words 
2 December 2002
BusinessWeek 
103 
No. 3810 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Michael Crichton's vision of a nanotech calamity won't frighten many scientists who work in this young and underdeveloped field. But by mixing genetic engineering into his brew, Crichton hits a nerve. Refined anthrax spores have already been used as weapons. Terrorist groups may well have access to smallpox. And with today's biotech tools, they could reengineer these and other microbes, unleashing pests that kill in unexpected ways and are resistant to most drugs. 

The threat of novel bioweapons has prompted a painful debate among American scientists: Should researchers censor themselves to stanch the flow of potentially dangerous information? The answer is probably yes, but there are at least three challenges. The pathogens--other than smallpox--are found everywhere in nature. Biotech expertise is also widely distributed around the globe, so self-censorship in one country may not prevent terrorists from obtaining knowledge and materials elsewhere. And there is a cost if scientists stop pooling their discoveries about killer pathogens. ``By understanding what makes them deadly, we can protect people. That's what biomedicine is all about,'' says Ronald M. Atlas, co-director of the Center for the Deterrence of Biowarfare & Bioterrorism at the University of Louisville. 

There is no easy solution. Still, the research community is taking action. In October, the National Academy of Sciences issued a statement encouraging members to think about what kinds of previously unclassified research should be restricted. Articles submitted for publication by the American Society for Microbiology (ASM) are now reviewed and could be rejected if the information contained poses a threat. In January, the National Academy of Sciences plans to open high-level debate on the whole topic. One proposal: Classify a narrowly defined set of information--throw it, in effect, into a black box. What goes in? ``Clearly, a cookbook for bioweapons,'' says Atlas, who heads the ASM. Beyond that, he acknowledges, it's a slippery slope. 

Photograph: WEIGHING THE RISKS: Louisville's Atlas PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL LUSTER/THE COURIER-JOURNAL 


Document bw00000020021127dyc20000z


More Like This

 Article 266 *******************    



Technology 

A Few Good Toys; The U.S. Army has some imaginative ways to annihilate the Saddams of the future. 

Dyan Machan 
1,051 words 
9 December 2002
Forbes Magazine 
120 
Volume 170; Issue 12 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

The U.S. Army has some imaginative ways to annihilate the Saddams of the future. 

As the U.S. Army prepares for war in Iraq (and beyond), it has been moving fast to transform itself from a Cold War relic into a deadly, rapidly deployable force. The last two major U.S. conflicts, Desert Storm and Kosovo, were largely won by the U.S. Air Force before the Army's lumbering tanks ever got there. The Army used to be a sledgehammer; now it needs to be a cordless drill. 

Technology will play a big role in this evolution, and that is the purview of A. Michael Andrews, the Army's 56-year-old deputy assistant secretary for research and technology. Andrews, a civilian electrical engineer with the rank of a two-star general, oversees 21 labs, 8,600 scientists and engineers and a $1.5 billion-a-year budget. "We explore the realm of what's possible," says Andrews, who was recruited by the Defense Department after 25 years at Rockwell International. He holds five patents in infrared technology, one of which is the basis for the guidance system on the Army's Javelin shoulder-fired antitank missile. 

Andrews gets his inspiration from science fiction like Star Trek and the books of Arthur C. Clarke, as well as nonfiction like Black Hawk Down, the retelling of U.S. Special Operations Forces' bloody, chaotic street fight in Mogadishu, Somalia in 1993. That book (and later movie) exposed a weakness: Soldiers had to make too many decisions about what they needed in battle and ended up going in unprepared. To correct this, Andrews is eliminating choices by incorporating drinking water, body armor and other features in the uniform of the future. 

What worries Andrews most is finding a way to toughen up battlefield data networks. Platoons will be busy monitoring video feeds from their falcon-size unmanned spy drones and receiving biohazard detection data from robotic scouts, all while screaming at one another over a headset. Each soldier may need to consume as much as 5 to 6 megabits per second, a hundred times the speed of a residential dial-up Internet connection. Add in smart weapons talking to satellites and armored personnel carriers talking to one another, and the modern-day battlefield becomes a telecom mob scene. 

"Everything relies on a reliable and secure network," says Andrews. "Without it, our vulnerability is exposed." Dreaming the possible is one thing. Making it work is quite another. 

Soldier Of Tomorrow 

The Army's goal is to come up with a uniform by 2008 that will make a soldier better than all that he can be. Helmets will enhance hearing and protect ears from battle cacaphony. Head's-up displays built into the visor will display infrared images to reveal friend from foe on the battlefield. To cut the weight soldiers must carry down from the current 100 lbs. to perhaps 40 lbs., the Army is developing a wheeled robot "mule" that follows a soldier around with equipment for purifying water and recharging batteries. Further out, the Army warfighter of 2025 will be a a machine-assisted soldier as deadly and effective as a 1990s-era tank. Lightweight body armor will use plastics made with nanomaterials to deflect a bullet with an electrical charge. Polymers in the uniform will "read" their wearer's surroundings and change color and pattern to render him nearly invisible. Boots may contain a liquid that hardens if the solider steps on a land mine. Coin-size silicon microturbines will power the soldiers' computer systems. 

Force Field 

The Army is getting ready to test an armored vehicle that can thwart rocket-propelled grenades by sending out an electronic counterpunch that creates a false target in front of the vehicle. How it works the Army won't say exactly. The first design is slated for next spring. The technology will be effective at intercepting grenades moving up to 475 feet per second and may be deployable by 2008. It isn't quite the protective energy-bubble enshrouding the Starship Enterprise, but we're getting there. Also under development for 2008: electromagnetic-pulse weapons mounted on tanks or drones to deliver a charge of energy that would fry enemy electronics, turning an unprotected fighter jet into a flying brick. 

Show Time 

A young recruit stands before a 150-degree wraparound movie screen, studying a military drama created by computer-graphics artists. More than 3,500 watts of sound thunder from 13 speakers throughout the room. He sees onscreen that his unit's Humvee has just struck a car carrying a civilian boy who will die unless he gets to a hospital--fast. Meanwhile a news crew is videotaping the action from the side. The officer calls for a medevac, but a nearby outpost radios that it's taking fire and needs backup. When the recruit heads for the field, abandoning the child, the mother goes ballistic as the news cameras roll. "This is crisis decision making," says Richard Lindheim, executive director of the Institute for Creative Technologies in Marina del Rey, Calif. The Army granted the institute an initial $45 million a year to create simulations using Hollywood talent. Lindheim says one colonel who tried it said it was too close to what he had experienced in Kosovo; the officer had to leave the room. An upgraded version is due out next year. 

Attack of the Drones 

Sergeant, we've shrunk the spy plane: The Predator, the unmanned airplane that incinerated a carload of al Qaeda suspects in Yemen last month, is on its way to becoming the size of a sparrow. Each soldier will use his own tiny drone, flying it around a corner to beam back video images into his helmet display screen. Six-inch winged versions under a soldier's control are in development for 2008; future versions will fly themselves via delicate image sensors and global positioning system data. Commercial uses: Farmers could send out a flock of drones to monitor crops; border control would be less labor intensive; and companies could fly the robo-critters over cubicles to make sure employees aren't slacking off. 

Document fb00000020021125dyc90000u


More Like This

 Article 267 *******************    



Technology 

The Chinese MIT; Tsinghua University, China's top tech school, churns out brains--and business ideas. 

Russell Flannery 
1,365 words 
9 December 2002
Forbes Global 
52 
Volume 005; Issue 23 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Tsinghua University isn't shy about encouraging--or financing--entrepreneurs to commercialize technology. 

The drill begins. Five groups of university students get 20 minutes to sell their business ideas before a group of judges, half of them venture capitalists. Power-point charts zip by as Ma Chen, 23, acting as the of ReLive, explains the benefits of its new bone-replacement compound. Patents are secure, and the product would be priced to undercut a U.S. rival, Wright Medical. Spotlighted on stage, Ma exudes confidence: "We expect great success." 

It sounds like something out of Silicon Valley, circa 1999. Instead, it's the fifth annual competition for the best entrepreneurial plan at China's Tsinghua University, the country's premier school for science geeks. Microsoft's Bill Gates and Yahoo's Jerry Yang are heroes here, and this institution, the Chinese equivalent of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), is in the forefront of the country's efforts to persuade its brightest young scientists to go commercial. To pave the way, Tsinghua hosts this October bakeoff and supports promising projects with capital, office space and contacts. The elite school's program has inspired similar efforts at lesser schools. 

Tsinghua is not yet in MIT's league for commercialization. More than 5,000 companies have been started or spun off by MIT students, alumni or staff. Tsinghua has invested in or licensed technology to fewer than 100. But in other respects, it's considerably bolder. Ken Morse, the director of MIT's Entrepreneurship Center, says that the institute doesn't even encourage those without experience to start a company; Tsinghua says, "Go for it." 

Tsinghua Pioneer Park, one of China's first incubators of student entrepreneurs, provides help with business registration and financial services. Four school-based venture-capital funds, worth $60 million, invest in businesses formed by university students and graduates, returnees from overseas and anyone else who walks in with a viable idea. As an institution, Tsinghua isn't shy about getting and staying involved in business (see box). 

The incubator, which also provides a bridge to foreign companies that set up in the park, hosts 40 companies; another 40 have been in and out since it was set up. 

"Basic education for entrepreneurs is badly needed here," says James Ding, the CEO of AsiaInfo Holdings, a telecommunications company in China that is listed on Nasdaq. Ding, who graduated from nearby Peking University--China's Harvard--puts his money where his convictions are: His company helps to finance the Fortune Forum student entrepreneur group at Tsinghua. "For too long a time the education system excluded teaching about the market economy." 

Markets do go south. Just as well, then, that the mood at the entrepreneur competition these days is more sober. "People are more skeptical of technology startups," Eugene Cha, a Beijing lawyer and event judge, says from the stage. His advice to one team of finalists is to contact this year's corporate sponsor of the awards, a Taiwanese electronics company, instead of starting up alone. Luo Jianbei, who heads the incubator, gives the science-oriented crowd a short lesson in sales. "It's important that the market can accept you," she says. "I think more people are clear about this." This year's winner wasn't from the electronics industry at all; it was ReLive. 

Ma is all business. In an interview a few days later, he excitedly reviews media coverage from the victory. If ReLive is formally launched as a business, he says, it will be in connection with an MIT-backed startups conference planned for Beijing in early 2003. 

The company's products can be produced in short order, he says, because it already has contacts with hospitals that do testing; manufacturing would be at one of those partners. The professor who led several years of research on the technology will probably stay on as chairman. 

Tsinghua encourages contestants in the competition to work more closely with its faculty. Three of the five groups in the finals this year did, and the hopefuls are seeking ties with venture capitalists increasingly early. Faculty members are getting better rewarded for coming up with patents and business ideas, instead of merely writing esoteric papers. 

All this is winning attention from global investors. Ted Kim, the head of a small equity firm in Washington, D.C., that has interests in the U.S. and South Korea, plans an office in the neighborhood: "We want to get into the deal flow at Tsinghua." 

Tsinghua University believes, with good reason, that it has the scientific heft. Only about 2,000 of the more than half a million Chinese who take the college entrance exam enter the top-flight school. In October a Tsinghua research team's advance in the red-hot field of nanotechnology was reported in Britain's Nature magazine. 

These days, when the business of China has become business, Tsinghua wants to realize a return on that prowess. "For a long time, our scientific knowledge was all kept inside of the university itself, something that was left over from the era of economic planning," says Mei Meng, the managing director of the Tsinghua Science Park Development Center, the part of the campus that houses startup companies and foreign research centers, such as Procter & Gamble's (see box). Faculty members say that in the old days creativity and flexibility were lacking. 

Commerce is still viewed skeptically in some quarters. "In the U.S., if you're different from others, you're a hero," says Jin Yong, the CEO of a networking-software outfit in Pioneer Park. "Here, if you tell your parents that you want to set up your own company, they will think, 'Hey, you're from Tsinghua. You can do better.'" 

The risk of failure also looms larger today than it did when the internet bubble was at its greatest expanse. "People think, first, that if you form a startup, it may not go well, and second, that your grades will be affected if the company isn't doing so well," says Wu Yawen, a graduate student in chemistry and the director of the Fortune Forum, whose events include talks on building wealth. 

But there's Jane Zheng, who runs another Tsinghua startup, Toshine, a maker of chemicals used in the manufacture of compact disks. Zheng, who enrolled in a master's degree program in chemistry at Tsinghua before giving up to set up Toshine, is a product of China's economic reform era. Her mother, a doctor in booming Shenzhen, just across the border from Hong Kong, encouraged her to focus on the startup instead of school. Zheng expects to start shipments to local CD manufacturers in the next half year. To save capital, she will farm out production to a chemical company in China; eventually, Toshine hopes to buy its own plant. 

More than 400 incubators exist in China, up from 110 at the end of 2000; they are found not just in schools but also in industrial parks in smaller cities. "Just as 50 years ago in China there was faith that communes were good, there is the same belief in incubators today," says Dinyar Lalkaka, a global consultant to such centers. 

The quality of projects coming out of China's Pioneer Parks is improving. ReLive's operations manager for this year's competition, a newly minted Tsinghau master's grad, works for IBM in China. Although he doesn't intend to leave IBM for ReLive, he says the startup can succeed with the plans now in place. 

Another recruit brought in by Ma is Zhou Xiaoqing, a prize-winning Chinese athlete at the 1998 Asian Games, as a spokeswoman. 

But ReLive as a real company may have to find itself a new CEO in addition to the operations chief. Reflecting the lingering mind-set of many of his contemporaries, Ma Chen says that he may to go the U.S. for a degree at Harvard Business School after finishing his master's. 

Working for the startup will have to wait. 

Document fb00000020021206dyc9000b6


More Like This

 Article 268 *******************    



Technology Journal 
Digits 

Digits 

1,041 words 
19 December 2002
The Wall Street Journal 
B5 
English
(Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[Gambits & Gadgets in the World of Technology] 

Get the LED Out 

Looking for a last-minute gadget for your favorite geek? 

Kopin Corp., a Taunton, Mass., developer of LED technology, has a few ideas. Kopin is leading a charge in a subsector of the semiconductor industry that is trying to reinvent how the world is lighted. 

LED, or light-emitting diode, essentially is a tiny chip that emits a reflection via an electrical charge. Longer-lasting and more energy-efficient than incandescent bulbs, LEDs are increasingly common, cheaper to produce and, thanks to some recent advances in chemistry and nanotechnology, available in a wide range of colors, including amber, blue, white and green. 

"Whoever can crack the general lighting nut can stop 276 metric tons of carbon emissions from going up the chimney by 2020, slash global electric-lighting usage by 50%, and eliminate 133 oil, coal or nuclear power plants," company spokesman Tim Munroe says. 

Before that happens, however, shoppers looking for gadgets for gifts might consider the following, Mr. Munroe says. For that distracted mom on your list, how about a purse with a built-in mini-LED flashlight that squeezes on, brightening the interior? For the scruffy hubby: an electric razor that gives him a blue hue while shaving. For your favorite toddler: interactive learning toys back-lighted with blue LEDs. Lastly, for those who are sick of stringing lights that don't work (and who isn't?), prestrung (albeit artificial) LED Christmas trees are on the market, "eliminating those bulb burn-outs and decorating arguments forever," Mr. Munroe says. 

A Sleigh to L.A. 

Don't be surprised to see Santa Claus driving down Interstate 5 next week from the Silicon Valley area to downtown Los Angeles. 

Danny Shader, chief executive of Sunnyvale, Calif., start-up Good Technology Inc., is donning a Santa hat (and perhaps other Christmas trimmings) to deliver several hundred of his company's G100 wireless e-mail devices to the Los Angeles offices of law firm O'Melveny & Myers LLP. With one of his chief engineers in tow, Mr. Shader plans to drive a white van filled with the gadgets down the sometimes-gridlocked highway to make the deployment. 

Mr. Shader doesn't often make deliveries to his company's 450 accounts, but this case demands more attention. O'Melveny has ordered 1,200 of Good's G100 products, the largest-ever order for the devices. "The company really cranked up to meet this order," says Mr. Shader, who will hold holiday festivities at Good to celebrate the O'Melveny deal tomorrow. "It was a great rallying point for us." 

Mark Samuels, head of O'Melveny's technology committee, says the law firm's order will cover all of its 800 attorneys, many of its senior paralegals and more. As for Mr. Shader's delivery of the Good G100 devices, Mr. Samuels says, "That's just the kind of service they've given us throughout." 

Holiday Cheerleading 

What is better than thumbing your nose at a rival? How about having a party right across the street to celebrate your latest product launch, complete with a big banner announcing the product's arrival. 

PeopleSoft Inc. rolled out the latest version of its sales-management software last week and decided to tweak its biggest competitor in the market. The Pleasanton, Calif., maker of software to manage personnel, financials and manufacturing decided to hold a party for the introduction of its PeopleSoft CRM 8.8 software across the street from Siebel Systems Inc.'s San Mateo, Calif., headquarters. 

Since this software product competes with Siebel's software for tracking sales, PeopleSoft decided to have a little fun with it. From the top of a sports-bar restaurant where the party was held, the company hung a large banner: "PeopleSoft CRM 8.8 Is Here!" 

"We're not afraid of those guys," says Joe Davis, PeopleSoft vice president and general manager of the customer-relationship-management unit. "We're aggressively going after this market. Our goal is to be the market leader." 

Siebel's software sales fell 34% in the third quarter as the company reported a net loss of $92.1 million, including charges for restructuring and repurchase of stock options. PeopleSoft, in contrast, saw a smaller decline in software sales and reported a $44.6 million profit for the third quarter. 

"We weren't even aware of the event," a Siebel spokeswoman says. "We're sorry that they went to so much effort for something that went unnoticed." 

Ice Cream to E-Mail 

What is a retired ice-cream magnate to do? If you are Ben Cohen, who made a success of cause-marketing with premium ice-cream maker Ben & Jerry's Homemade Inc., you modify the idea and try online guerrilla-marketing techniques to promote a cause. 

Mr. Cohen, 51 years old, sold the unhealthful but politically correct ice-cream company to Unilever two years ago. He has since started a political-advocacy site called TrueMajority.com that attempts to aggregate left-leaning single-issue activists who focus on the environment or women's rights or child hunger. He says single-issue activists may total 45 million Americans who generally support the same broad agenda of cutting defense spending and boosting social services. 

TrueMajority, which has registered about 96,000 people, monitors legislation in Congress and sends out e-mail alerts twice a month. TrueMajority says it generated 100,000 messages to Congress opposing the vote authorizing war with Iraq. 

While Ben & Jerry's flavors such as Cherry Garcia were invariably tasty, some of TrueMajority's marketing tactics are tasteless. It is trying to boost membership with a site called SpankBush.com, where users punish a cartoon president by spanking him with a dead fish for transgressions from "warmongering" to "mangled English." 

When TrueMajority sends out an e-mail, recipients can click a button to send a fax message to their senators and representatives. Mr. Cohen concedes that faxes aren't environmentally correct compared with e-mail, but he says, "Our information is that they carry more weight." 

--- 

Digits was compiled by Ann Grimes with contributions from Pui-Wing Tam, Mylene Mangalindan and William M. Bulkeley. 

Document j000000020021219dycj00031


More Like This

 Article 269 *******************    



Innovators 

The Titan of the Teensy; Charles Lieber sees lots of cheap, tiny devices in your future. 

Elizabeth Corcoran 
1,295 words 
23 December 2002
Forbes Magazine 
306 
Volume 170; Issue 13 
English
Copyright 2002 Forbes Inc. 

Charles Lieber wants to wire up the future in a multitude of cheap, tiny devices. 

Charles Lieber wasn't supposed to end up at Harvard University. The school turned him down for a teaching job 15 years ago, and he still recalls the two-line rejection letter he received. But the young chemist, who never liked doing things the way everyone else did them, finally landed the job four years later. 

These days Lieber, 43, holds a chair in Harvard's chemistry department. He and his team of 24 graduate students are the world's leaders in building "nanowires," whiskers of semiconductors so thin you could bundle 20 million inside a strand of 2-lb.-test fishing line. There is might in such minuteness. Much as the transistor was the fundamental building block of modern electronics, nanowires could similarly transform the way we live--starting with infinitesimally small sensors that scan the environment for invisible toxins to devices that monitor a diabetic's blood or check a cardiac patient for arrhythmia. They may also be instrumental in the next generation of almost-invisible computational devices, ones so small and cheap they could be woven into your clothes. 

This should be sweet for a guy whose fourth-grade teacher had her doubts about him: Charlie will either achieve something of consequence--or end up in jail, she told his parents. But he is still seeking a greater win. As recently as two years ago, Lieber says, "I thought building a nanocomputer chip was sort of a joke. Like, yeah, you're gonna build a 16-kbit memory. You get money from DARPA [the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency]. Yeah--wink, wink. There were so many gaps in the process. I like to deal in realism." 

But the reality has become startling. After decades of research, nanotech is primed to burst into real products in the next two years. Broadly speaking, nanotechnology describes work on materials whose critical dimensions are measured in nanometers, or one-billionth of a meter. It promises to bridge the world of molecules with the "macro" world that the rest of us inhabit. "As a synthetic chemist, I could make any molecule you want," says Nathan Lewis, a professor at the California Institute of Technology. "But I don't know how to connect the molecules." 

Lieber and others are trying to turn molecules into useful systems, from sensors to integrated circuits. "Charles Lieber is showing at the nanolevel actual transistors. That's extremely important," says Philip Kuekes, a leader in quantum science research at HP Labs, which is pioneering a competing approach to building nanoscale memory chips. 

Lieber is uncomfortable with praise, restless to do better. "I'm really searching for ..."--he pauses, picking his words--"for a way of impacting more ... more than a narrow community of scientists." 

As a teenager he was more of a tinkerer than a talker, winning national competitions for building and racing model planes. When he entered Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., his parents nudged him toward premed. The interviews for med school were uncomfortable for the taciturn Lieber. But chemistry had been fun. On a lark, he applied to graduate school at Stanford University. He was a restless student, dropping one area of chemistry research for another, searching for a question that was big, important--and untouched. (He received his doctorate in chemistry from Stanford in 1985.) 

When he joined Columbia University in 1987 for his first job after postdoctoral studies at Caltech, he scrapped his past research on how electrons move through biological molecules. He wanted to be among the first to refine the techniques for viewing atoms by using scanning tunneling microscopes (STMs). Grant committees were dubious. "They'd say, 'This young principal investigator doesn't know anything about physics or STMs,'" Lieber recalls. But in the next four years he had the pleasure of proving them wrong--and showing how an STM could virtually excavate the structure of materials such as semiconductors and superconductors. 

When physicists electrified science by creating high-temperature superconductors, Lieber switched his focus again. This time his key contributions included helping understand how to make the materials better conductors. Harvard bit, inviting him to join the faculty in 1991. 

"You know the great scientists by the problems they pick to work on," says Caltech's Lewis. "Charlie knows how to place his scientific interest in the hot place, at the hot time. There's no teaching that. You're born with it." 

The nanotech buzz grew louder in the early 1990s as scientists discovered "carbon nanotubes," soda straws of carbon just one or two nanometers wide. Carbon nanotubes have alluring properties, sometimes acting like semiconductors, other times like conductors. Scientists get both types when they make a batch of carbon nanotubes. Sorting them out is hard. 

Such frustrations nudged Lieber toward silicon, the mainstay of the computer-chip business. He and his group realized they could grow silicon wires--chains of silicon crystals 2 to 20 nanometers in diameter and typically 10 microns long--on top of nanosize flakes of gold. They "harvest" the wires by putting them in solution and jostling the mixture until the wires snap off their gold anchors. Like tiny logs, the wires float on top of water. Researchers then force them into neat parallel formations and lift the patches of wires off the water using thin films. 

In early 2000 Lieber and another Harvard chemist, Hongkun Park, created exquisitely sensitive biodetectors by pasting molecules--an antibody, say, that is attracted only to a particular protein--to their nanowires. They hooked up with longtime venture capitalist Lawrence Bock, who had seeded 14 biotech companies, and formed a firm called Nanosys. "I settled on Lieber as the nucleating point for the company," says Bock. "He had been able to do in a lab with 24 graduate students what much larger groups had been doing with carbon nanotubes." 

Nanosys, launched in September 2001, is modest in size if not ambition. Bock is chief executive of a team of 30 based in Palo Alto and has raised $17 million. Park, Lieber and several other noted nanotechies comprise the scientific advisory team and provide patents and consulting sessions. (The founders hold 20% of the company.) Bock wants Nanosys to build nanowire enabled modules--say, for a simple biosensor--which corporate partners could plug into more complex products. Think "'Intel inside,'" he quips. 

"What's risky for Nanosys is learning how to make just the nanowires they want," says Josh Wolfe, editor of the Forbes/Wolfe Nanotech Report. "Once they do, we know what silicon can do. We've got four decades of work on silicon behind us." 

Back at Harvard Lieber and his team have more nanowire ideas than they have time to explore. They have concocted nanowires of many semiconductor compounds and as long as 100 microns; "tutti-frutti" wires that have one type of semiconductor followed by another type; and others that have one material tucked inside shells of different materials. (Such wires, Lieber suggests, could have an electronic device like a diode already built in.) They have made colored light-emitting diodes from nanowires and are putting the final touches on electrically pumped minilasers. And still out there waiting to be created is that most elusive of breakthroughs--a nanoscale "universal computer" that can do any kind of computation. 

"A universal computer would validate so much of what's been said about nanotech," Lieber says, slowing down to savor the prospect. "That, to me, is doable in five years. And that would make me feel--at least at that moment--like I've done something." 

Document fb00000020021209dycn00016


More Like This

 Article 270 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

SILICON GETS A REPRIEVE--BY WAY LESS THAN A HAIR 

Edited by Otis Port 
270 words 
23 December 2002
BusinessWeek 
88 
Number 3813 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Once again, silicon experts have prolonged the usefulness of the world's premier semiconductor material. The business of engraving ever-finer circuits in silicon was supposed to hit a wall around 2015, forcing the chip industry to switch to some exotic new concept, such as quantum physics--and chuck a half-century of accumulated know-how. That deadline has now been postponed, perhaps indefinitely, judging from several research papers at this year's International Electron Devices Meeting, which ended in San Francisco on Dec. 11. 

The IEDM is a showcase for semiconductor breakthroughs with long-term implications, and two papers were especially upbeat. One dealt with the challenges of insulation. Engineers have long assumed that when circuit lines shrink to less than 10 nanometers wide, or 100,000 times thinner than a human hair, existing methods of insulating wires and transistors would prove too flimsy, leading to catastrophic short circuits. But researchers at Agere Systems (the former chipmaking arm of Lucent Technologies) recently discovered that the properties of the silicon-dioxide insulation used today actually change for the better as dimensions shrink into the nanoscale realm. So, no matter how fine these lines become, effective insulation could be available. 

As if to prove the point, IBM scientists reported that they have made a working transistor only 6-nm wide. That's one-third smaller than the size projected to enter production in 2016. The company also found that ultrathin insulation seems feasible. Get ready for chips crammed with a billion transistors or more. 

Document bw00000020021219dycn0002i


More Like This

 Article 271 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

TEACHING THOSE MOLECULES TO TAKE ORDERS 

Edited by Otis Port By Neil Gross 
166 words 
23 December 2002
BusinessWeek 
88 
Number 3813 
English
(Copyright 2002 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Nanotechnologists believe that proteins and other complex molecules might make excellent micromachines--more versatile than anything an engineer could build from scratch. But how do you customize the specific molecule, or tell it what to do? 

Scientists at Massachusetts Institute of Technology are tackling these issues by fitting molecules with tiny antennas, then sending simple instructions via radio. As described at a recent Materials Research Society meeting in Boston, MIT Associate Professor Joseph Jacobson and his team attached gold nanoparticles to DNA molecules in a solution inside a plastic tube. When exposed to an oscillating magnetic field, the gold-tagged DNA unwound, then wound back up when the power was shut off. Ultimately, this technique could let doctors switch off harmful genes in a cell or activate good ones. And cell-size machines could be crafted by radioing instructions to enzymes, directing them to cut and paste pieces of proteins. 

Document bw00000020021219dycn0002j


More Like This

 Article 272 *******************    



Companies People Ideas 

Greenhouse Effect; DuPont is racing to propel its new technology out of the labs. Can research save the chemical giant--and Chief Executive Chad Holliday's job? 

Chana R. Schoenberger 
2,236 words 
3 February 2003
Forbes Magazine 
54 
Volume 171; Issue 03 
English
Copyright 2003 Forbes Inc. 

DuPont is racing to propel its new technology out of the labs. Can research restore the luster to the chemical giant--and save Chad Holliday's job? 

A splay of low-slung brick buildings and orderly footpaths fills up 150 peaceful acres along the Brandywine River in Wilmington, Del. This site is nicknamed the Ex Station, and it has the feel of a string of greenhouses, which is fitting--a century of American innovation has germinated here. The Experimental Station was set up a hundred years ago by a gunpowder maker, E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. Since then the meandering research lab has turned out an arsenal of manmade materials that have defined or annotated American life--the Dacron polyester that shrouded the 1970s in loud leisure suits, the painted-on Lycra that squeezed the figures of millions of women, the Mylar that shielded the space shuttle, the Kevlar that protected cops. The lab thereby turned a 19th-century company into a $25-billion-a-year chemicals empire. 

And then the ideas seemed to dry up. The last time the Ex Station came out with a new household name--Stainmaster fabric protection--was in 1986. The ensuing years were marked by an overemphasis on "new-and-improving" its old brands and stubborn faith in an also-ran drug pipeline as DuPont's managers made big deals--buying an oil company in 1981, a seed giant in 1999. The malaise at the Ex Station was reflected in DuPont's own mediocrity. Its estimated 2002 revenue fell 2%; earnings, excluding one-time gains, were $1.9 billion, amounted to a 6% five-year compound growth rate. 

Only 25% of DuPont 

's revenue comes from products introduced in the past five years; at 3M 

, one-third of sales come from lines introduced in the past four years. It is commonplace on Wall Street for investors to care only about short-term results, not investing for the future, but DuPont's lackluster shares belie that theory. At $44, they go for 18 times expected 2003 net, while 3M's shares get a 22 multiple. 

The mix of mediocrity, malaise and investor ambivalence has made for a difficult tenure for DuPont's chief executive, Charles O. (Chad) Holliday, 54, a company lifer and an aw-shucks nice guy who took on the top job four years ago. A number of institutional investors have bailed out of his stock in the past two years. He was pilloried for making an exorbitantly priced acquisition of a seed company that led to a $3 billion writeoff. In 2001 DuPont's biggest union, with 6,000 U.S. employees, called for his ouster. If things don't get better soon, the unions one day might be joined by institutional investors. 

Undaunted, Holliday has set bold goals for 2003: sales growth of 6%--sharply reversing last year's decline--and per-share earnings growth of 10%. Even Chad Holliday forgives his many doubters. "People are very legitimately saying, 'Are you going to get there?' " says Holliday. "It's really hard to schedule a blockbuster." 

Holliday is placing his hopes on a revival of invention at the Ex Station. A large part of his optimism stems from the alchemy under way in a cramped, fabric-strewn office inhabited by an enzyme specialist named Charles Nakamura. The low-key scientist is working on a radical method to produce a versatile new synthetic fiber called Sorona, a cousin to polyester. Aimed for use in clothing, carpets and car interiors, Sorona could rival the multibillion-dollar franchises of Dacron and Lycra. Most fibers are based on petroleum, an ingredient with environmental side effects and volatile price patterns. Nakamura works to create Sorona from a brew of corn and a genetically engineered version of a common bacterium. 

Sorona emerges from an effort by Holliday to marry DuPont's legacy in chemistry to breakthroughs in bioscience. It could herald a new generation of synthetics fashioned from biological materials rather than from oil-based ingredients. And that would do wonderful things to the bottom line at DuPont. It spends $4.6 billion a year on petroleum and petrochemicals; a 10% decline in oil costs would add 16 cents a share to annual earnings. DuPont is expected to earn $1.98 a share in 2002. 

With a looming war in Iraq threatening to destabilize oil prices yet again, Holliday has challenged the 2,000 scientists and engineers at the Ex Station to focus on biological materials that are cheap, efficient, biodegradable and as accessible as Iowa's cornfields. Holliday vows 25% of sales will come from renewable resources by 2010, up from 14% today. 

Along with the new biomaterials, DuPont is rushing to perfect superthin video displays, polymer circuitry that could supplant silicon and miniature fuel cells for cars; that last effort has sprung from a 35-year project in the lab. The company's fastest-growing unit, the electronics business, which makes the resins that chipmakers use to etch semiconductors, is spreading into the automotive industry. Holliday wants to boost his share of materials that go into cell phones from $1 per phone today to $3 in three years. He also plans to wrap all these businesses with a layer of services revenue. In three years Holliday has created a $100 million consulting business--from scratch--by cashing in on DuPont's reputation for factory safety; its rate of injuries and illnesses per hour worked is one-fifth that of typical manufacturers. 

As DuPont plants new seedlings of growth, it has cut away once-sacred businesses. In 2001 Holliday sold the drug division to Bristol-Myers Squibb for $7.8 billion. Later this year DuPont plans to spin off its hallmark textile fibers business, home to nylon, Lycra and Stainmaster, with $6.5 billion in annual sales (see sidebar). "We're not obsessed with size," he says. "We've been reducing our revenue but increasing value." 

Yet the DuPont chief is trying to pull all of this off without a big increase in spending at the Ex Station. Instead Holliday is spending the $1.6 billion research budget smarter, overhauling priorities in the past 18 months. Hundreds of pet projects have been killed, even the three-year struggle to genetically engineer plants to produce chemicals. Most of the freed-up money is funneled into the 75 most promising programs. Funding has more than doubled for fuel cell work and flat-panel displays. 

Anything gee-whiz must be accompanied by a solid marketing plan. DuPont still tells new recruits about Corfam, the failed shoe leather that flamed out in the 1960s despite a huge promotional blitz. Women wanted breathable, comfortable shoes that would last until the next fashion trend, but DuPont gave them hot, stiff uppers that lasted forever. DuPont's labs also were famously blind to opportunities developed at home, like the gas chromatograph and a host of DNA sequencing techniques now in wide use; DuPont thought them too insignificant to market. 

When Holliday became chief executive few outside the company had ever heard of him. The burly 30-year DuPont-er, an industrial engineer by training, grew up in Nashville and graduated in 1970 from the University of Tennessee. He clocked in months later at DuPont's Old Hickory, Tenn. plastics factory. He spent 20 years in the fibers and chemicals businesses and ran the Kevlar and fire-retardant Nomex brands. Holliday put in 7 years more in Asia, eventually running the region. He still rises at 4 every morning to check the Asian markets before reaching his desk at 6:30, where he often answers his own phone. 

His headquarters, in downtown Wilmington next to the stately Hotel DuPont, are close to the mill where patriarch Eleuthere Irenee du Pont started making gunpowder in 1802. DuPont's heirs, three of whom sit on the board, turned the company into a chemicals business, most famously with automobile paints. Their real success came from finding as many applications as possible for every new molecule they created. Nylon, discovered in 1930, became part of pantyhose, tire cord and carpets. Lycra, invented in 1958 and woven into gym gear and clingy skirts, was a multibillion seller by the 1990s. 

Where DuPont went wrong was in ventures outside synthetics. In 1981 the company bought Conoco as oil prices spiked to $30 a barrel. By the time DuPont spun it off in 1999, oil had slid into the teens. The poorly timed deal--oil is now at $32--drew sneers. DuPont's drug business never popped, with only two winners, the blood thinner Coumadin and Sustiva, an AIDS drug. 

When Holliday took over in 1998, he set out to return DuPont to its roots: "We're a science company, we always have been." In 1999, amid much hype over crop biotech, he spent $7.6 billion, or four times sales, to buy the outstanding 80% stake in a seed company already 20% owned by DuPont: Pioneer Hi-Bred International. Holliday insists his much-derided purchase was necessary for his push into bio-based products. He concedes it didn't make the most objective sense, given the later writeoff: "I sure wouldn't take that decision back, but I understand why people criticize it." 

In pursuing the big bio payoff, DuPont dusted off a polymer that it first worked on 50 years ago at the Ex Station. Sorona had always held high promise for its naturally stretchy properties, stain resistance and dyeing ease, but its key ingredient, 1,3-propanediol, was oil-based, and nobody had ever figured out how to produce it economically. In 1995 researchers at the Ex lab decided to let Mother Nature take a whack at it. The plan was to feed corn sugar, or glucose, to genetically modified bacteria that would then excrete the 1,3-propanediol. 

Enzymologist Nakamura had a head start: Because Sorona had already been designed, he knew what the target molecule looked like. But he had few clues as to how to tinker with the bacterium's genes so that its enzymes would convert glucose to the cloudy, apple-cider-colored 1,3-propanediol. He enlisted Genencor, a biotech firm in Palo Alto, Calif., to help splice in gene snippets from various bacteria into a docile version of the Escherichia coli bug, famous for upset stomachs. The genetic recipe worked, but yields were too low, only 80 grams per liter of glucose. Nakamura figured that replacing one of the enzymes in the complicated metabolic pathway would turbocharge production of 1,3-propanediol. A breakthrough came in 1999, surprising Nakamura himself. He removed the gene that coded for the underperforming enzyme and planned to substitute a different gene. But before doing that, he ran a test run using the undoctored E. coli gene. Eureka! The normal E. coli gene worked with its designer neighbors to nearly double production to 140 grams of the elusive 1,3-propanediol. 

DuPont can now produce 51 pounds of Sorona for every 100 pounds of glucose. The goal is to begin commercial production in two years. DuPont is mum on how profitable Sorona might be, but it plans to undercut polyester, which can run $1,500 per ton. DuPont, backed by a $38 million Department of Energy grant, is teaming up with San Diego enzyme house Diversa to try using corn stalks, instead of just the pricier kernel, which could cut the raw material cost in half, to $35 per ton. "We believe we can grow to be in the company of nylon and polyester," says Nakamura. 

Competitors of Sorona, however, are emerging quickly. Royal Dutch/Shell is working on a similar fiber and is expected to start production this year. 

DuPont also is flinging itself into displays for cell phones and monitors, in a bid to crack the $30 billion flat-panel market. Down the street from Nakamura's lab on the Ex Station, scientists David Roach and Lap-Tak Cheng have spent three years working on field emission displays, which at 2 inches would be half as thick as today's plasma televisions. Their design is a constellation of electron-emitting carbon nanotubes, each one the thickness of a double helix of DNA, all of which sit on top of microscopic pixels that can be switched on and off to create a moving picture. The tubes, nestled in the millimeter of vacuum between glass planes, yield a brighter picture at lower power than plasma. The displays are expected to go on sale in 2005, costing $1,500 to $2,000 for a 40-inch screen. 

"Either we're going to be successful in the next two years, or we'll do something else," says Roach. In a joint venture with Princeton-based research firm Sarnoff, DuPont is looking for a way to print electronics onto plastic instead of the more expensive silicon. "We're effectively making displays the way people make newspapers," says Arthur Firester, senior program director at Sarnoff. 

Chad Holliday may get the blockbuster he needs to save the company. He may not. But he has to try. There's no future in making yesterday's textile fibers. 

Obtain logo for use on your site. 

Document fb00000020030121dz23000b8


More Like This

 Article 273 *******************    



Companies & Strategies 

The Greenhouse Effect; CEO Chad Holliday banks on R&D to jump-start the faltering chemical giant. 

Chana R. Schoenberger 
2,314 words 
3 February 2003
Forbes Global 
30 
Volume 006; Issue 03 
English
Copyright 2003 Forbes Inc. 

DuPont is racing to propel its new technology out of the labs. Can research restore the luster to the chemical giant--and save Chad Holliday's job? 

A splay of low-slung brick buildings and orderly footpaths fills up 60 peaceful hectares along the Brandywine River in Wilmington, Delaware. This site is nicknamed the Ex Station, and it has the feel of a string of greenhouses, which is fitting--a century of American innovation has germinated here. The Experimental Station was set up a hundred years ago by a gunpowder maker, E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. Since then the meandering research lab has turned out an arsenal of manmade materials that have defined or annotated American life--the Dacron polyester that shrouded the 1970s in loud leisure suits, the painted-on Lycra that squeezed the figures of millions of women, the Mylar that shielded the space shuttle, the Kevlar that protected cops. The lab thereby turned a 19th-century company into a $25-billion-a-year chemicals empire. 

And then the ideas seemed to dry up. The last time the Ex Station came out with a new household name--Stainmaster fabric protection--was in 1986. The ensuing years were marked by an overemphasis on "new-and-improving" its old brands and stubborn faith in an also-ran drug pipeline as DuPont's 

managers made big deals--buying an oil company in 1981, a seed giant in 1999. The malaise at the Ex Station was reflected in DuPont's own global mediocrity. Through three quarters in 2002, revenues barely budged in Asia and dropped 6% in Europe to $5.3 billion, a market that generates a quarter of DuPont's sales. Its estimated 2002 revenue fell 2% worldwide; earnings, excluding one-time gains, were $1.9 billion, amounting to a 6% five-year compound growth rate.Only 25% of DuPont's revenue comes from products introduced in the past five years; at 3M 

, one-third of sales come from lines introduced in the past four years. It is commonplace on Wall Street for investors to care only about short-term results, not investing for the future, but DuPont's lackluster shares belie that theory. At $44, they go for 18 times expected 2003 net, while 3M's shares get a 22 multiple. 

The mix of mediocrity, malaise and investor ambivalence has made for a difficult tenure for DuPont's chief executive, Charles O. (Chad) Holliday, 54, a company lifer and an aw-shucks nice guy who took on the top job four years ago after running the Asian operations for seven years. A number of institutional investors have bailed out of his stock in the past two years. He was pilloried for making an exorbitantly priced acquisition of a seed company that led to a $3 billion writeoff. In 2001 DuPont's biggest union, with 6,000 U.S. employees, called for his ouster. If things don't get better soon, the unions one day might be joined by institutional investors. 

Undaunted, Holliday has set bold goals for 2003: sales growth of 6%--sharply reversing last year's decline--and per-share earnings growth of 10%. Even Chad Holliday forgives his many doubters. "People are very legitimately saying, 'Are you going to get there?' " says Holliday. "It's really hard to schedule a blockbuster." 

Holliday is placing his hopes on a revival of invention at the Ex Station. In 2000 Holliday brought in Thomas Connelly to head R&D. Connelly is a Cambridge-educated Ph.D. who spent ten years overseeing DuPont projects in Europe and Asia. A large part of Holliday's optimism stems from the alchemy under way in a cramped, fabric-strewn office inhabited by an enzyme specialist named Charles Nakamura. The low-key scientist is working on a radical method to produce a versatile new synthetic fiber called Sorona, a cousin to polyester. Aimed for use in clothing, carpets and car interiors, Sorona could rival the multibillion-dollar franchises of Dacron and Lycra. Most fibers are based on petroleum, an ingredient with environmental side effects and volatile price patterns. Nakamura works to create Sorona from a brew of corn and a genetically engineered version of a common bacterium. 

Sorona emerges from an effort by Holliday to marry DuPont's legacy in chemistry to breakthroughs in bioscience. It could herald a new generation of synthetics fashioned from biological materials rather than from oil-based ingredients. And that would do wonderful things to the bottom line at DuPont. It spends $4.6 billion a year on petroleum and petrochemicals; a 10% decline in oil costs would add 16 cents a share to annual earnings. DuPont is expected to earn $1.98 a share in 2002. 

With a looming war in Iraq threatening to destabilize oil prices yet again, Holliday has challenged the 2,000 scientists and engineers at the Ex Station to focus on biological materials that are cheap, efficient, biodegradable and as accessible as Iowa's cornfields. Holliday vows 25% of sales will come from renewable resources by 2010, up from 14% today. 

But there are risks associated with this directive. The dustup over genetically modified products has become a political and financial hot potato. Monsanto is still recovering from a disastrous European foray into GM foods that culminated in massive consumer protests. And the rhetoric continues to heat up. In January, Robert Zoellick, a U.S. Trade Representative, called the European Union "immoral" for refusing shipments of genetically modified foods and campaigning for African nations to do the same. 

Is Holliday leading DuPont into the eye of the storm? No, counters the company. DuPont says it will make Sorona from conventional corn. Hence, it won't actually be engineered. And for now, the controversy is isolated to foods. 

DuPont is keeping a close watch on the commotion in the EU. It is bent on not letting a P.R. nightmare get the better of its plans. It has an advisory council made up of biotech experts that vets its projects. "We believe there needs to be regulation, for example, for allergies," says Holliday. But, he adds, "The products are safe." 

Along with the new biomaterials, DuPont is rushing to perfect superthin video displays, polymer circuitry that could supplant silicon, and miniature fuel cells for cars; that last effort has sprung from a 35-year project in the lab. The company's fastest-growing unit, the electronics business, which makes the resins that chipmakers use to etch semiconductors, is spreading into the automotive industry. Holliday wants to boost his share of materials that go into cell phones from $1 per phone today to $3 in three years. He also plans to wrap all these businesses with a layer of services revenue. In three years Holliday has created a $100 million consulting business--from scratch--by cashing in on DuPont's reputation for factory safety; its rate of injuries and illnesses per hour worked is one-fifth that of typical manufacturers. 

As DuPont plants new seedlings of growth, it has cut away once-sacred businesses. In 2001 Holliday sold the drug division to Bristol-Myers Squibb for $7.8 billion. Later this year DuPont plans to spin off its hallmark textile fibers business, home to nylon, Lycra and Stainmaster, with $6.5 billion in annual sales (see box, below). 


Polymer portfolio
                   DuPont market share
Product            Global market($bil)  worldwide  North America
Global competitors
Titanium dioxide   $8                   24%        55%
Millennium, Kerr-McGee, Ishihara Sangyo
Paints & coatings  60                   5          9              BASF,
Sherwin Williams, Akzo Nobel
Nylon fibers       17                   16         37
Solutia, BASF, Formosa
Nylon resins       5                    18         39
Solutia, BASF, Mitsubishi
Polyester fibers   22                   3          18             Kosa,
Teijin, Toray


Yet the DuPont chief is trying to pull all of this off without a big increase in spending at the Ex Station. Instead Holliday is spending the $1.6 billion research budget smarter, overhauling priorities in the past 18 months. Hundreds of pet projects have been killed, even the three-year struggle to genetically engineer plants to produce chemicals. Most of the freed-up money is funneled into the 75 most promising programs. Funding has more than doubled for fuel cell work and flat-panel displays. 

When Holliday became chief executive few outside the company had ever heard of him. The burly 30-year DuPont-er, an industrial engineer by training, grew up in Nashville, Tennessee, and in 1970 graduated from the University of Tennessee. He clocked in months later at DuPont's Old Hickory, Tennessee, plastics factory. He spent 20 years in the fibers and chemicals businesses and ran the Kevlar and fire-retardant Nomex brands. He spent seven years in Asia and still rises at 4 every morning to check the Asian markets before reaching his desk at 6:30. 

His headquarters, in downtown Wilmington next to the Hotel DuPont, are close to the mill where patriarch Eleuthere Irenee du Pont started making gunpowder in 1802. DuPont's heirs, three of whom sit on the board, turned the company into a chemicals business, most famously with automobile paints. Their real success came from finding as many applications as possible for every new molecule they created. Nylon, discovered in 1930, became part of pantyhose, tire cord and carpets. Products using Lycra, invented in 1958 and woven into gym gear and skirts, were multibillion sellers by the 1990s. 

Where DuPont went wrong was in ventures outside synthetics. In 1981 the company bought Conoco as oil prices spiked to $30 a barrel. By the time DuPont spun it off in 1999, oil had slid into the teens. The poorly timed deal--oil is now at $32--drew sneers. DuPont's drug business never popped, with only two winners, the blood thinner Coumadin and Sustiva, an AIDS drug. 

When Holliday took over in 1998, he set out to return DuPont to its roots: "We're a science company, we always have been." In 1999, amid much hype over crop biotech, he spent $7.6 billion, or four times sales, to buy the outstanding 80% stake in a seed company already 20% owned by DuPont: Pioneer Hi-Bred International. Holliday insists his much-derided purchase was necessary for his push into bio-based products. He concedes it didn't make the most objective sense, given the later writeoff: "I sure wouldn't take that decision back, but I understand why people criticize it." 

In pursuing the big bio payoff, DuPont dusted off a polymer that it first worked on 50 years ago at the Ex Station. Sorona had always held high promise for its naturally stretchy properties, stain resistance and dyeing ease, but its key ingredient, 1,3-propanediol, was oil-based, and nobody had ever figured out how to produce it economically. In 1995 researchers at the Ex lab decided to let Mother Nature take a whack at it. The plan was to feed corn sugar, or glucose, to genetically modified bacteria that would then excrete the 1,3-propanediol. 

Enzymologist Nakamura had a head start: Because Sorona had already been designed, he knew what the target molecule looked like. But he had few clues as to how to tinker with the bacterium's genes so that its enzymes would convert glucose to the cloudy, apple-cider-colored 1,3-propanediol. He enlisted Genencor, a biotech firm in Palo Alto, California, to help splice in gene snippets from various bacteria into a docile version of the Escherichia coli bug, famous for upset stomachs. The genetic recipe worked, but yields were too low, only 80 grams per liter of glucose. Nakamura figured that replacing one of the enzymes in the complicated metabolic pathway would turbocharge production of 1,3-propanediol. A breakthrough came in 1999, surprising Nakamura himself. He removed the gene that coded for the underperforming enzyme and planned to substitute a different gene. But before doing that, he ran a test run using the undoctored E. coli gene. Eureka! The normal E. coli gene worked with its designer neighbors to nearly double production to 140 grams of the elusive 1,3-propanediol. 

DuPont can now produce 23 kilos of Sorona for every 46 kilos of glucose. The goal is to begin commercial production in two years. DuPont is mum on how profitable Sorona might be, but it plans to undercut polyester, which can run $1,500 per ton. 

DuPont also is flinging itself into displays for cell phones and monitors, in a bid to crack the $30 billion flat-panel market. Down the street from Nakamura's lab in the Ex Station, scientists David Roach and Lap-Tak Cheng have spent three years working on field emission displays, which at 5 centimeters would be half as thick as today's plasma televisions. Their design is a constellation of electron-emitting carbon nanotubes, each one the thickness of a double helix of DNA, all of which sit on top of microscopic pixels that can be switched on and off to create a moving picture. The tubes, nestled in the millimeter of vacuum between glass planes, yield a brighter picture at lower power than plasma. The displays are expected to go on sale in 2005. 

"Either we're going to be successful in the next two years, or we'll do something else," says Roach. In a joint venture with Princeton-based research firm Sarnoff, DuPont is looking for a way to print electronics onto plastic instead of the more expensive silicon. "We're effectively making displays the way people make newspapers," says Arthur Firester, senior program director at Sarnoff. 

Chad Holliday may get the blockbuster he needs to save the company. He may not. But he has to try. There's no future in making yesterday's textile fibers. 

Document fb00000020030204dz2300001


More Like This

 Article 274 *******************    



Cover Story 

THE NEW GLOBAL JOB SHIFT The next round of globalization is sending upscale jobs offshore. They include basic research, chip design, engineering--even financial analysis. Can America lose these jobs and still prosper? Who wins? Who loses? 

By Pete Engardio, Aaron Bernstein, and Manjeet Kripalani With Frederik Balfour in Manila, Brian Grow in Atlanta, and Jay Greene in Seattle 
3,994 words 
3 February 2003
BusinessWeek 
50 
Number 3818 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

The sense of resignation inside Bank of America is clear from the e-mail dispatch. ``The handwriting is on the wall,'' writes a veteran information-technology specialist who says he has been warned not to talk to the press. Three years ago, the Charlotte (N.C.)-based bank needed IT talent so badly it had to outbid rivals. But last fall, his entire 15-engineer team was told their jobs ``wouldn't last through September.'' In the past year, BofA has slashed 3,700 of its 25,000 tech and back-office jobs. An additional 1,000 will go by March. 

Corporate downsizings, of course, are part of the ebb and flow of business. These layoffs, though, aren't just happening because demand has dried up. Ex-BofA managers and contractors say one-third of those jobs are headed to India, where work that costs $100 an hour in the U.S. gets done for $20. Many former BofA workers are returning to college to learn new software skills. Some are getting real estate licenses. BofA acknowledges it will outsource up to 1,100 jobs to Indian companies this year, but it insists not all India-bound jobs are leading to layoffs. 

Cut to India. In dazzling new technology parks rising on the dusty outskirts of the major cities, no one's talking about job losses. Inside Infosys Technologies Ltd.'s impeccably landscaped 22-hectare campus in Bangalore, 250 engineers develop IT applications for BofA. Elsewhere, Infosys staffers process home loans for Greenpoint Mortgage of Novato, Calif. Near Bangalore's airport, at the offices of Wipro Ltd., five radiologists interpret 30 CT scans a day for Massachusetts General Hospital. Not far away, 26-year-old engineer Dharin Shah talks excitedly about his $10,000-a-year job designing third-generation mobile-phone chips, as sun pours through a skylight at the Texas Instrument Inc. research center. Five years ago, an engineer like Shah would have made a beeline for Silicon Valley. Now, he says, ``the sky is the limit here.'' 

About 1,600 km north, on an old flour mill site outside New Delhi, all four floors of Wipro Spectramind Ltd.'s sandstone-and-glass building are buzzing at midnight with 2,500 young college-educated men and women. They are processing claims for a major U.S. insurance company and providing help-desk support for a big U.S. Internet service provider--all at a cost up to 60% lower than in the U.S. Seven Wipro Spectramind staff with PhDs in molecular biology sift through scientific research for Western pharmaceutical companies. Behind glass-framed doors, Wipro voice coaches drill staff on how to speak American English. U.S. customers like a familiar accent on the other end of the line. 

Cut again to Manila, Shanghai, Budapest, or San Jose, Costa Rica. These cities--and dozens more across the developing world--have become the new back offices for Corporate America, Japan Inc., and Europe GmbH. Never heard of Balazs Zimay? He's a Budapest architect--and just might help design your future dream house. The name SGV & Co. probably means nothing to you. But this Manila firm's accountants may crunch the numbers the next time Ernst & Young International audits your company. Even Bulgaria, Romania, and South Africa, which have a lot of educated people but remain economic backwaters, are tapping the global market for services. 

It's globalization's next wave--and one of the biggest trends reshaping the global economy. The first wave started two decades ago with the exodus of jobs making shoes, cheap electronics, and toys to developing countries. After that, simple service work, like processing credit-card receipts, and mind-numbing digital toil, like writing software code, began fleeing high-cost countries. 

Now, all kinds of knowledge work can be done almost anywhere. ``You will see an explosion of work going overseas,'' says Forrester Research Inc. analyst John C. McCarthy. He goes so far as to predict at least 3.3 million white-collar jobs and $136 billion in wages will shift from the U.S. to low-cost countries by 2015. Europe is joining the trend, too. British banks like HSBC Securities Inc. have huge back offices in China and India; French companies are using call centers in Mauritius; and German multinationals from Siemens to roller-bearings maker INA-Schaeffler are hiring in Russia, the Baltics, and Eastern Europe. 

The driving forces are digitization, the Internet, and high-speed data networks that girdle the globe. These days, tasks such as drawing up detailed architectural blueprints, slicing and dicing a company's financial disclosures, or designing a revolutionary microprocessor can easily be performed overseas. That's why Intel Inc. and Texas Instruments Inc. are furiously hiring Indian and Chinese engineers, many with graduate degrees, to design chip circuits. Dutch consumer-electronics giant Philips has shifted research and development on most televisions, cell phones, and audio products to Shanghai. In a recent PowerPoint presentation, Microsoft Corp. Senior Vice-President Brian Valentine--the No. 2 exec in the company's Windows unit--urged managers to ``pick something to move offshore today.'' In India, said the briefing, you can get ``quality work at 50% to 60% of the cost. That's two heads for the price of one.'' 

Even Wall Street jobs paying $80,000 and up are getting easier to transfer. Brokerages like Lehman Brothers Inc. and Bear, Stearns & Co., for example, are starting to use Indian financial analysts for number-crunching work. ``A basic business tenet is that things go to the areas where there is the best cost of production,'' says Ann Livermore, head of services at Hewlett-Packard Co., which has 3,300 software engineers in India. ``Now you're going to see the same trends in services that happened in manufacturing.'' 

The rise of a globally integrated knowledge economy is a blessing for developing nations. What it means for the U.S. skilled labor force is less clear. At the least, many white-collar workers may be headed for a tough readjustment. The unprecedented hiring binge in Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America comes at a time when companies from Wall Street to Silicon Valley are downsizing at home. In Silicon Valley, employment in the IT sector is down by 20% since early 2001, according to the nonprofit group Joint Venture Silicon Valley. 

Should the West panic? It's too early to tell. Obviously, the bursting of the tech bubble and Wall Street's woes are chiefly behind the layoffs. Also, any impact of offshore hiring is hard to measure, since so far a tiny portion of U.S. white-collar work has jumped overseas. For security and practical reasons, corporations are likely to keep crucial R&D and the bulk of back-office operations close to home. Many jobs can't go anywhere because they require face-to-face contact with customers. Americans will continue to deliver medical care, negotiate deals, audit local companies, and wage legal battles. Talented, innovative people will adjust as they always have. 

Indeed, a case can be made that the U.S. will see a net gain from this shift--as with previous globalization waves. In the 1990s, Corporate America had to import hundreds of thousands of immigrants to ease engineering shortages. Now, by sending routine service and engineering tasks to nations with a surplus of educated workers, the U.S. labor force and capital can be redeployed to higher-value industries and cutting-edge R&D. ``Silicon Valley doesn't need to have all the tech development in the world,'' says Doug Henton, president of Collaborative Economics in Mountview, Calif. ``We need very-good-paying jobs. Any R&D that is routine can probably go.'' Silicon Valley types already talk about the next wave of U.S. innovation coming from the fusion of software, nanotech, and life sciences. 

Globalization should also keep services prices in check, just as it did with clothes, appliances, and home tools when manufacturing went offshore. Companies will be able to keep shaving overhead costs and improving efficiency. ``Our comparative advantage may shift to other fields,'' says City University of New York economist Robert E. Lipsey, a trade specialist. ``And if productivity is high, then the U.S. will maintain a high standard of living.'' By spurring economic development in nations such as India, meanwhile, U.S. companies will have bigger foreign markets for their goods and services. 

For companies adept at managing a global workforce, the benefits can be huge. Sure, entrusting administration and R&D to far-flung foreigners sounds risky. But Corporate America already has become comfortable hiring outside companies to handle everything from product design and tech support to employee benefits. Letting such work cross national boundaries isn't a radical leap. Now, American Express, Dell Computer, Eastman Kodak, and other companies can offer round-the-clock customer care while keeping costs in check. What's more, immigrant Asian engineers in the U.S. labs of TI, IBM, and Intel for decades have played a big, hidden role in American tech breakthroughs. The difference now is that Indian and Chinese engineers are managing R&D teams in their home countries. General Electric Co., for example, employs some 6,000 scientists and engineers in 10 foreign countries. GE Medical Services integrates magnet, flat-panel, and diagnostic imaging technologies from labs in China, Israel, Hungary, France, and India in everything from its new X-ray devices to $1 million CT scanners. ``The real advantage is that we can tap the world's best talent,'' says GE Medical Global Supply Chain Vice-President Dee Miller. 

That's the good side of the coming realignment. There are hazards as well. During previous go-global drives, many companies ended up repatriating manufacturing and design work because they felt they were losing control of core businesses or found them too hard to coordinate. In a recent Gartner Inc. survey of 900 big U.S. companies that outsource IT work offshore, a majority complained of difficulty communicating and meeting deadlines. As a result, predicts Gartner Inc. Research Director Frances Karamouzis, many newcomers will stumble in the first few years as they begin using offshore service workers. 

A thornier question: What happens if all those displaced white-collar workers can't find greener pastures? Sure, tech specialists, payroll administrators, and Wall Street analysts will land new jobs. But will they be able to make the same money as before? It's possible that lower salaries for skilled work will outweigh the gains in corporate efficiency. ``If foreign countries specialize in high-skilled areas where we have an advantage, we could be worse off,'' says Harvard University economist Robert Z. Lawrence, a prominent free-trade advocate. ``I still have faith that globalization will make us better off, but it's no more than faith.'' 

If the worries prove valid, that could reshape the globalization debate. Until now, the adverse impact of free trade has been confined largely to blue-collar workers. But if more politically powerful middle-class Americans take a hit as white-collar jobs move offshore, opposition to free trade could broaden. 

When it comes to developing nations, however, it's hard to see a downside. Especially for those countries loaded with college grads who speak Western languages, outsourced white-collar work will likely contribute to economic development even more than new factories making sneakers or mobile phones. By 2008 in India, IT work and other service exports will generate $57 billion in revenues, employ 4 million people, and account for 7% of gross domestic product, predicts a joint study by McKinsey & Co. and Nasscom, an Indian software association. 

What makes this trend so viable is the explosion of college graduates in low-wage nations. In the Philippines, a country of 75 million that churns out 380,000 college grads each year, there's an oversupply of accountants trained in U.S. accounting standards. India already has a staggering 520,000 IT engineers, with starting salaries of around $5,000. U.S. schools produce only 35,000 mechanical engineers a year; China graduates twice as many. ``There is a tremendous pool of well-trained people in China,'' says Johan A. van Splunter, Philips' Asia chief executive. 

William H. Gates III, for one, is dipping into that pool. Although Microsoft started later than many rivals, it is moving quickly to catch up. In November, Chairman Gates announced his company will invest $400 million in India over the next three years. That's on top of the $750 million it's spending over three years on R&D and outsourcing in China. At the company's Beijing research lab, one-third of the 180 programmers have PhDs from U.S. universities. The group helped develop the ``digital ink'' that makes handwriting show up on Microsoft's new tablet PCs and submitted four scientific papers on computer graphics at last year's prestigious Siggraph conference in San Antonio. Hyderabad, India, meanwhile, is key to Microsoft's push into business software. 

This is no sweatshop work. Just two years out of college, Gaurav Daga, 22, is India project manager for software that lets programs running on Unix-based computers interact smoothly with Windows applications. Daga's $11,000 salary is a princely sum in a nation with a per capita annual income of $500, where a two-bedroom flat goes for $125 a month. Microsoft is adding 10 Indians a month to its 150-engineer center and indirectly employs hundreds more at IT contractors. ``It's definitely a cultural change to use foreign workers,'' says Sivaramakichenane Somasegar, Microsoft's vice-president for Windows engineering. ``But if I can save a dollar, hallelujah.'' 

Corporations are letting foreign operations handle internal finances as well. Procter & Gamble Co.'s 650 Manila employees, most of whom have business and finance degrees, help prepare P&G's tax returns around the world. ``All the processing can be done here, with just final submission done to local tax authorities'' in the U.S. and other countries, says Arun Khanna, P&G's Manila-based Asia accounting director. 

Virtually every sector of the financial industry is undergoing a similar revolution. Processing insurance claims, selling stocks, and analyzing companies can all be done in Asia for one-third to half of the cost in the U.S. or Europe. Wall Street investment banks and brokerages, under mounting pressure to offer independent research to investors, are buying equity analysis, industry reports, and summaries of financial disclosures from outfits such as Smart Analyst Inc. and OfficeTiger that employ financial analysts in India. By mining databases over the Web, offshore staff can scrutinize an individual's credit history, access corporate public financial disclosures, and troll oceans of economic statistics. ``Everybody these days is drawing on the same electronic reservoir of data,'' says Ravi Aron, who teaches management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. 

Architectural work is going global, too. Fluor Corp. of Aliso Viejo, Calif., employs 1,200 engineers and draftsmen in the Philippines, Poland, and India to turn layouts of giant industrial facilities into detailed specs and blueprints. For a multibillion-dollar petrochemical plant Fluor is designing in Saudi Arabia, a job requiring 50,000 separate construction plans, 200 young Filipino engineers earning less than $3,000 a year collaborate in real time with elite U.S. and British engineers making up to $90,000 via Web portals. The principal Filipino engineer on plumbing design, 35-year-old Art Aycardo, pulls down $1,100 a month--enough to buy a Mitsubishi Lancer, send his three children to private school, and take his wife on a recent U.S. trip. Fluor CEO Alan Boeckmann makes no apologies. At a recent meeting in Houston, employees asked point-blank why he is sending high-paying jobs to Manila. His response: The Manila operation knocks up to 15% off Fluor's project prices. ``We have developed this into a core competitive advantage,'' Boeckmann says. 

It's not just a game for big players: San Francisco architect David N. Marlatt farms out work on Southern California homes selling for $300,000 to $1 million. He fires off two-dimensional layouts to architect Zimay's PC in Budapest. Two days later, Marlatt gets back blueprints and 3-D computer models that he delivers to the contractor. Zimay charges $18 an hour, vs. the up to $65 Marlatt would pay in America. ``In the U.S., it is hard to find people to do this modeling,'' Zimay says. ``But in Hungary, there are too many architects.'' 

So far, white-collar globalization probably hasn't made a measurable dent in U.S. salaries. Still, it would be a mistake to dismiss the trend. Consider America's 10 million-strong IT workforce. In 2000, senior software engineers were offered up to $130,000 a year, says Matt Milano, New York sales manager for placement firm Atlantis Partners. The same job now pays up to $100,000. Entry-level computer help-desk staffers would fetch about $55,000 then. Now they get as little as $35,000. ``Several times a day, clients tell me they are sending this work off shore,'' says Milano. Companies that used to pay such IT service providers as IBM, Accenture, and Electronic Data Services $200 a hour now pay as little as $70, says Vinnie Mirchandani, CEO of IT outsourcing consultant Jetstream Group. One reason, besides the tech crash itself, is that Indian providers like Wipro, Infosys, and Tata charge as little as $20. That's why Accenture and EDS, which had few staff in India three years ago, will have 5,000 each by next year. 

Outsourcing experts say the big job migration has just begun. ``This trend is just starting to crystallize now because every chief information officer's top agenda item is to cut budget,'' says Gartner's Karamouzis. Globalization trailblazers, such as GE, AmEx, and Citibank, have spent a decade going through the learning curve and now are ramping up fast. More cautious companies--insurers, utilities, and the like--are entering the fray. Karamouzis expects 40% of America's top 1,000 companies will at least have an overseas pilot project under way within two years. The really big offshore push won't be until 2010 or so, she predicts, when global white-collar sourcing practices are standardized. 

If big layoffs result at home, corporations and Washington may have to brace for a backlash. Already, New Jersey legislators are pushing a bill that would block the state from outsourcing public jobs overseas. At Boeing Co., an anxious union is trying to ward off more job shifts to the aircraft maker's new 350-person R&D center in Moscow (page 42). 

The truth is, the rise of the global knowledge industry is so recent that most economists haven't begun to fathom the implications. For developing nations, the big beneficiaries will be those offering the speediest and cheapest telecom links, investor-friendly policies, and ample college grads. In the West, it's far less clear who will be the big winners and losers. But we'll soon find out. 


Going Abroad
Aerospace Engineer
Boeing has used aeronautics specialists in Russia to design luggage bins and
wing parts on 777 aircraft. Next: Possible joint development of new commercial
aircraft.
OFFSHORE SALARY: $650/month for master's in math or aeronautics.
U.S. COUNTERPART: $6,000/month.
Chip Designer
Engineers in India and China mainly used to write code for chips designed in
the U.S. Now they develop devices for Texas Instruments, Intel, and others.
With new computer-design tools, they will soon do entire systems on a chip.
OFFSHORE SALARY: $1,000/month in India with master's and five years'
experience.
U.S. COUNTERPART: $7,000/month.
Architect
Computer-generated sketches for everything from major industrial plants to
suburban homes are being converted into blueprints by architects in the
Philippines, Hungary, Chile, and other nations.
OFFSHORE SALARY: $250/month in the Philippines.
U.S. COUNTERPART: $3,000/month and up.
Financial Analyst
U.S. brokerages, investment banks, and rating agencies are buying equity
research and industry reports from finance specialists in India. They mine the
same databases available to Wall Street.
OFFSHORE SALARY: $1,000/month in India.
U.S. COUNTERPART: $7,000/month and up.
Accountant
Big corporations are having bookkeeping, such as accounts receivables, done in
Ireland, India, and the Philippines and are shifting work on taxes and
financial reports there, too. Soon, offshore accountants may do everything but
on-site audits.
OFFSHORE SALARY: $300/month in Philippines with master's.
U.S. COUNTERPART: $5,000/month and up.
Globalization Goes White Collar
A global pool of skilled workers...
NUMBER OF NATURAL-SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING COLLEGE GRADUATES
              --------BAs-------      ---MAs and PhDs---
                 1989       1999        1989        1999
CHINA         127,000    322,000      19,000      41,000
INDIA         165,000    251,000      64,000      63,000
PHILIPPINES    40,000     66,000         255         937
MEXICO         32,000     57,000         340      63,000
U.S.          196,000    220,000      61,000      77,000
Data: National Science Foundation, BusinessWeek
...is drawing more Western companies that are eager to cut costs...
COMPANY         NO. OF WORKERS AND COUNTRY     TYPE OF WORK MOVING
ACCENTURE       5,000 in the                   Accounting, software,
                Philippines by 2004            back-office work
CONSECO         1,700 in India, 3 more         Insurance claim
                centers planned                processing
DELTA           6,000 contract workers         Airline reservations,
AIR LINES       in India, Philippines          customer service
FLUOR           700 in the                     Architectural
                Philippines                    blueprints
GENERAL         20,000 in India alone by       Finance, IT support,
ELECTRIC        yearend; big China R&D         R&D for medical,
                center                         lighting, aircraft
HSBC            4,000 in China, India          Credit-card, loan processing
INTEL           3,000 in India by 2005         Chip design, tech support
MICROSOFT       500 in India, China            Software design,
                by year end                    IT support
ORACLE          Doubling India staff           Software design, customer
                to 4,000                       support, accounting
PHILIPS         700 Chinese engineers          Consumer electronics
                in China                       R&D
PROCTER         650 in Philippines,            Tech support,
& GAMBLE        150 in China                   accounting
Data: Gartner Inc., McKinsey & Co., Forrester Research Inc., BusinessWeek
...a trend that's likely to grow
NUMBER OF U.S. JOBS MOVING OFFSHORE*
                            2005           2010          2015
LIFE SCIENCES              3,700         14,000        37,000
LEGAL                     14,000         35,000        75,000
ART, DESIGN                6,000         14,000        30,000
MANAGEMENT                37,000        118,000       288,000
BUSINESS OPERATIONS       61,000        162,000       348,000
COMPUTER                 109,000        277,000       473,000
ARCHITECTURE              32,000         83,000       184,000
SALES                     29,000         97,000       227,000
OFFICE SUPPORT           295,000        791,000     1,700,000
TOTAL                    588,000                    3,300,000
* To low-wage countries such as India, China, Mexico, and the Philippines
Data: Forrester Research Inc.
 

Photograph: NEW DELHI: WHITE-COLLAR WORKERS AT WIPRO SPECTRAMIND PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO BARTHOLOMEW/NETPHOTOGRAPH.COM Photograph: INDIA DHARIN SHAH TEXAS INSTRUMENTS SALARY: $10,000 The designer of 3G phone chips sees no reason to move to Silicon Valley PHOTOGRAPH BY NAMAS BHOJANI Illustration: Chart: Map: A WORLD OF OUTSOURCING Data: Gartner, McKinsey, BW MAP BY ALBERTO MENA/BW Photograph: HUNGARY BALAZS ZIMAY ARCHITECT PAY: $18/HOUR Zimay can design your dream house from Budapest--for half what draftsmen in the U.S. charge (L TO R) PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER PAWINSKI; CESAR RUBIO Photograph: PHILIPPINES MARIBETH MEDINA SGV, ERNST & YOUNG STARTING PAY: AROUND $4,000 Manila number-crunchers work on the books of U.S. companies PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO GARCIA/CORBIS SABA 


Document bw00000020030130dz230001g


More Like This

 Article 275 *******************    



Gearing Up: Girding the Grunt for War 

By Antonio Regalado 
1,242 words 
7 February 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Corrections & Amplifications 

A. MICHAEL ANDREWS, the Army's Deputy Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology, is a civilian. An article on Friday's Marketplace page misidentified Dr. Andrews as a uniformed U.S. Army officer. 

(WSJ Feb. 10, 2003) 

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Wearing of the Green Could Be Deadly in Iraq" -- WSJ Feb. 24, 2003) 


IF PRESIDENT BUSH orders an invasion of Iraq, U.S. soldiers could face a fight in the streets of Baghdad -- unlike in Desert Storm, when the battle was won by tanks and aircraft in the open desert. Such an urban war requires different skills and equipment, and far more reliance on infantry troops. 

By most accounts, U.S. ground troops are better trained and more prepared than ever before. Battlefield communications have improved greatly, and new body-armor designs saved lives of recruits fighting in Afghanistan. But some observers say the "dismounted" infantry soldier has suffered from systematic neglect by the Pentagon. 

In an era of smart bombs and multibillion-dollar defense programs, the average grunt's gear doesn't include even a simple hand-held computer. And although recent efforts to swing research-and-development dollars in his favor are expected to make a big difference, it won't be in time for this fight. Many of the Army's most promising concepts are still in the prototype stage. 

Army officials also have to be very careful not to weigh down foot soldiers with too many gadgets that might make it hard for them to run and fight. Indeed, recent efforts to better equip the infantry have foundered in some cases because the Army hasn't been able to make gadgets, like laptops or hand-helds, light enough and easy enough to operate on the fly under enemy fire. 

That said, much has changed from 1991. Night-vision goggles are now ubiquitous, making war and its preparations a 24-hour enterprise. In the daytime, new three-color camouflage has replaced the "chocolate chip" pattern worn by Desert Storm troops. 

Some of the most significant technology advances were displayed during Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. Portable global-position devices and laser target designators allowed special-operations teams camped on Afghan mountains to direct air strikes on distant positions. Gear protecting against chemical and biological weapons is also improved. 

Much of the testing and development of such systems is conducted at U.S. Army Soldier Systems Center in Natick, Mass., which is responsible for many of the armed services' basic needs, including parachutes, tents and uniforms. Engineers say progress has been steady. Freeze-dried meals, for instance, now have chemical packs to heat themselves. And the choice of candy gets updated more often. 

Outside of canteen perks, critics say investment in advanced technology has fallen short. Retired Gen. Barry McCaffrey, who commanded 26,000 soldiers during Desert Storm, says research on next-generation gear has been "grossly underfunded" compared with rich contracts awarded for new fighter jets. 

It wasn't until well after the Gulf War that the Army came up with a program able to make procurement dollars stick, says Douglas Johnson, a professor at the Strategic Studies Institute at the U.S. Army War College. The program: Recasting the soldier as a complete "system." "If you don't have a system, it gets piece-parted, and it dissappears into ratholes, and no one is a proponent. If it's a system, it can be sustained," says Prof. Johnson. 

Mock-ups of future soldiers feature laser weapons and garb packed with sensors to detect land mines. The Pentagon's most recent thrust, a $50 million-a-year program called Objective Force Warrior won't be ready before 2012. 

Advanced equipment tends to become available first on vehicles, which have more power to run it, later trickling into the rank and file. Increasingly common now, for instance, are infrared scopes that can pick out an enemy's body heat behind cover, or through smoke. 

Natick engineer Dutch DeGay says when he was an Army Ranger in the late 1990s the thermal scope "was the size of a breadbox and on a weapon that two gentlemen had to carry." Now, video-camera-size devices built by Raytheon Co. for rifles are being issued to soldiers operating in Afghanistan, according to Beth Sarratt, an Army public-affairs official. 

Development efforts have paid off for soldiers in a couple of other key areas. New body armor, known as the Interceptor, uses both Kevlar fabric and ceramic plates slipped into a harness. Interceptor is heavy -- 16 pounds -- but it stops rifle bullets. During Desert Storm, troops' vests could stop only shrapnel and pistol shots. 

The latest garb protecting against chem-bio warfare is called Joint Service Light Weight Integrated Suit Technology. JLIST garments mop up chemicals with a layer of charcoal, like that in a water filter. Next-generation suits will use a plastic membrane weighing half as much, says Eugene Wilusz, the Natick researcher who tests them in a basement. His test subject, an animatronic mannequin known as Pvt. Paul, was built by Creative Engineering Inc. of Orlando, Fla., which invented the Wac-A-Mole arcade game, now available in a "Bin Laden Basher" version. 

For future fighting apparel, the Defense Department is hoping that new ways of manipulating molecules will yield superstrong, lightweight fabrics. Toward that end, the Army last year gave the Massachusetts Institute of Technology $30 million for a new Institute for Soldier Nanotechnology. 

Some aspects of current battle dress have changed little since the olive fatigues of World War II. Apparel items still use buttons, for instance, because Velcro is noisy enough to give away a soldier's position and zippers are hard to repair on the move, says Carole Winterhalter, a textile expert in Natick's Individual Protection Directorate. 

Some of the Army's successful development efforts involve "militarizing" products already available in any mall. A new rucksack worn by infantry includes a CamelBak, a water pouch commonly used by skiers and other athletes. 

The Army says its most pressing need is to lessen the weight of soldier's gear -- now, when fully loaded, a crushing 100 pounds or more. "The Army needs more mobility and agility, and the way to do that is to drive down the weight of the soldier load," says Maj. Gen. A. Michael Andrews, the Army's chief scientist. Around Natick, the motto is "No More Christmas Trees." Engineers admit they've been hanging new equipment onto soliders like so many extra baubles. 

Under the Objective Force Warrior plan, the goal is to develop an integrated, lightweight system of equipment that will cut fighting weight to about 40 pounds within a decade. Gen. McCaffrey, now a professor at West Point, is most critical of small-arms development, which he says hasn't received enough funding. In the late '90s, he launched development of an advanced rifle known as the objective infantry combat weapon to replace the M4 carbine and M16, but it remains a prototype. "That should have been finished and fielded by now," he says. 

Recently fielded weapons include the Javelin, an antitank missle. A new version of the Mark 19 machine gun fires grenades more than a mile, says Gen. McCaffrey. "It makes my heart warm," he says. "People get killed by high-explosive rounds, not direct hits." 

--- 

Greg Jaffe contributed to this article. 

Document j000000020030207dz270002u


More Like This

 Article 276 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

NANO MEMORY CHIPS PROMISE JUMBO PERFORMANCE 

By Steve Wildstrom Edited by Adam Aston 
297 words 
17 February 2003
BusinessWeek 
73 
Number 3820 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Until cheap integrated circuits came on the scene in the late 1960s, computers relied on electrically activated mechanical switches to store data. If Woburn (Mass.) startup Nantero Inc. has its way, memory may soon return to its electromechanical roots--but this time, it will be on a nano scale. 

Nantero's nonvolatile random-access memory (NRAM) uses single-walled carbon nanotubules just 20 nanometers, or billionths of a meter, wide. The tubules are laid out in a grid, with those running in one direction suspended a few nanometers above those running the other way. When opposite voltages are applied to a perpendicular pair of tubules, the upper one bends until it makes contact with the lower. Touching tubules have a different electrical resistance that can be read as a ``1,'' while noncontact is a ``0.'' 

This binary grid promises to outperform current memory chips. Nantero says NRAM can pack 5 billion bits of data into a square centimeter--several times the density of today's high-capacity memory chips. Plus, the NRAMs can be read 2 billion times per second, about five times as quickly as the fastest memory chips now in common use. And the devices are nonvolatile, meaning their contents are retained even when power is off. Such performance suggests that NRAM could make a superior substitute for the flash memory in most digital cameras and cell phones. It could also be used for the specialized high-speed RAM used in PCs. 

Nantero is currently talking with chipmakers about manufacturing NRAM, which can be fabricated in existing chip plants. Chief Executive Greg Schmergel says that the new devices could be on the market in as little as two years. 

Document bw00000020030213dz2h0001s


More Like This

 Article 277 *******************    



Venture Capital 

The Money List; Visit forbes.com/moneylist for an extended list. 

Susan Kitchens and Patricia Huang 
1,796 words 
31 March 2003
Forbes Global 
46 
Volume 006; Issue 07 
English
Copyright 2003 Forbes Inc. 


                                       Funds under mgt$millions  Number
of funds  Est.  Lead Partner or CEO    contact                  phone
number
EUROPE



3i/London (III)
                                       3,520                     listed
          1945  Brian Larcombe         Paul Waller
44-20-7928-3131
Investments: WiredMinds, Genesto, KuDOS Pharmaceuticals. Essentials:
Diversified private equity, active in the U.K. and Europe
Abingworth Management/ London
                                       400                       1
          1973  Stephen Bunting        Stephen Bunting
44-20-7534-1500
Investments: Galapagos Genomics, Xcounter, Picoliter. Essentials: Early
stage life sciences
Accel Partners/London
                                       500                       1
          2001  Kevin Comolli          Kevin Comolli
44-20-7170-1000
Investments: Cape Clear Software, Tahoe Networks, Terachip. Essentials:
European arm of Palo Alto-based Accel
Advent Venture Partners/London
                                       760                       4
          1981  Sir David Cooksey      Patrick Lee
44-20-7630-9811
Investments: Scipher,Oxagen, Radiant Networks, Pertinence. Essentials:
Technology, life sciences; once part of Advent Int'l
Alta Berkeley/London
                                       175                       3
          1982  Bryan Wood             Tim Brown
44-20-7734-4884
Investments: CeNes, Cambridge Positioning Systems, Arpida. Essentials:
Communications, IT, Healthcare
Apax Partners/London, New York, Paris
                                       11,000                    3
          1969  Sir Ronald Cohen       Clive Sherling
44-20-7872-6300
Investments: Jazztel, Autonomy, QXL, Azimut, Kabel Deutschland.
Essentials: Diversified private equity, offices worldwide
Amadeus Capital Partners/London
                                       460                       3
          1997  Anne Glover            Anne Glover
44-207-024-6900
Investments: CSR, Clearswift, Riskclick, Plastic Logic, Enigmatec.
Essentials: Partnership of early Cambridge backer and London VCs
Atlas Venture/London
                                       2,188                     6
          1980  Gerard Montanus        Christopher Spray
44-20-7529-4444
Investments: Speechworks, Gorilla Park, Arteris, Liquid Machines.
Essentials: Formerly part of ING, invests in IT, communications, life
sciences
Benchmark Capital Europe/London
                                       500                       1
          2000  George Coelho          George Coelho
44-20-70-16-6800
Investments: Flutter.com, KeenEurope.com, Betfair, Icera Semi,
BridgeCo. Essentials: European fund of Silicon Valley-based Benchmark
Crescendo/London
                                       1,100                     5
          1993  David Spreng           Ian Jenks
44-20-7529-6300
Investments: Algety Telecom, NetCentrex, SealedMedia, Arteris,
CoreOptics, Optillion. Essentials: IT, Communications; born out of IAI
Ventures, a Lloyds TSB subsidiary
Doughty Hanson/London
                                       4,500                     3
          1985  Nigel Doughty          Stephen Marquardt
44-20-7663-9300
Investments: Tak'Asic, Marrakech, LM Glasfiber, ATU, Priory Healthcare.
Essentials: One of Europe's largest PE firms; raised money last year
for technology
GMT/London
                                       550                       3
          1998  Jeffrey Montgomery     Tim Green
44-20-7292-9333
Investments: Orion Publishing, Internet Network Services, CMI, Tes
Litvinov. Essentials: Media and telecoms in Europe
Hg Capital (formerly Mercury)/London
                                       1,225                     1
          1990  Ian Armitage           Craig Donaldson
44-20-7089-7888
Investments: Orbis, Verigen, Dechra Pharmaceuticals, Castlebeck, FTE
Automotive. Essentials: Health care, media, technology, industrials
and consumer goods
Kennet Venture Partners/London
                                       275                       2
          1997  Michael Elias          Alex King
44-20-7839-8020
Investments: Paragon Software, Altitun, Spirea, Orchestream.
Essentials: VC arm of Broadview; Wireless technology, IT
Merlin Biosciences/London
                                       450                       3
          1996  Sir Christopher Evans  Andrew Greene
44-20-7849-6003
Investments: Ark Therapeutics, Neurotech, Cambridge Biotech, Amedis,
Intercytex. Essentials: Exclusively biotech
Terra Firma Capital Partners/ London
                                       3,000                     2
          2002  Guy Hands              Bill Miles
44-20-7521-3001
Investments: Thorn, Unique Pubs, William Hill, Annington Homes.
Essentials: Leveraged buyout partnership started by former Nomura star
Delta Partners/Dublin
                                       130                       3
          1994  Frank Kenny            Frank Kenny
353-1294-0870
Investments: Arctic Web, VoxSurf, Tango Telecom, Polarlake, Farran
Technologies. Essentials: Software, communications, internet in
Ireland & Europe
Trinity Venture Capital/Dublin
                                       105                       2
          1997  Shane Reihill          Gavin Bourke
353-1205-7700
Investments: Network 365, Rococo Software, Sepro Telecom. Essentials:
Part of Reihill family's VC group; raised $151 mln last year
ACT/DublinCK
                                       387                       3
          1994  Niall Carroll          Walter Hobbs
353-1260-0966
Investments: AEP, CR2, QUMAS. Essentials: Raised largest pure VC fund
in Europe last year: $187 mln
Scottish Equity Partners/Glasgow
                                       210                       4
          2000  Calum Paterson         Catherine Simpson
44-14-1273-4000
Investments: Cambridge Silicon Radio, Cyclacel, Radioscape, Provis.
Essentials: Biotech, healthcare, IT, energy, communications
CapMan/Helsinki
                                       1,827                     listed
          1989  Ari Tolppanen          Jerome Bouix
358-9-615-5800
Investments: Extra Personnel Services, Siennax Int'l, Nordkalk, Ascade,
Tieturi, Inion. Essentials: Bought Swedinvest last year for $17 mln;
specialists in biotech and IT
Sofinnova Partners/Paris
                                       468                       4
          1972  Jean-Bernard Schmidt   Denis Lucquin
33-1-5305-4100
Investments: Actelion, IDM, Tak'Asic. Essentials: The oldest VC in
France; specializes in life sciences and IT
Earlybird/Germany
                                       300                       3
          1997  Hendrik Brandis        Christian Nagel
49-40-432-9410
Investments: Merge Optics, Esmertec, Europroteome. Essentials: Health
care and communications
PolyTechnos Venture Partners/Munich
                                       220                       2
          1998  Dirk Kanngiesser       Stefanie Nagel
49-89-2422-6210
Investments: Fast Technology, Power Paper, OncoGenome Sciences, Giga
Stream UMTS. Essentials: Closed a $140 mln fund in January
Target Partners/Munich
                                       124                       1
          2000  Kurt Muller            Waldemar Jantz
49-89-207-0490
Investments: InterMedia Solutions, WLAN, NaWoTec, MergeOptics, Cube
Optics. Essentials: IT, telecommunications, medical devices
Techno Venture Management/Munich
                                       764                       5
          1983  Helmut Schuhsler       Theresia Wermelskirchen
49-89-99-89-920
Investments: Actelion, Qiagen, Swissrisk, Ark Therapeutics, Addex
Pharma, Coley Pharma. Essentials: German-U.S. partnership; invests in
IT, communication and life sciences
B-Business Partners/Amsterdam
                                       807                       *N/A
          2000  Lennart Johansson      Katrin Horstmann
49-89-24243-100
Investments: Frontville, Surplex, Finexia, iORA, Healy Hudson, AEP,
Cedron. Essentials: IT, communications, expansion phase, European
companies
Gilde/ Utrecht
                                       528                       3
          1982  Toon den Heijer        Marc Perret
31-30-219-2525
Investments: Infitel, Truston, Pieris Proteolab, Ablynx. Essentials:
IT, Biotech and Nutrition
Northzone Ventures/ Oslo
                                       135                       3
          1994  Karl-Christian Agerup  Tellef Thorleifsson
47-22-12-50-10
Investments: Stepstone, Lastminute, Edvantage, NextGenTel, Envox.
Essentials: Raised new money last year; invests in Nordic countries
HealthCap/Stockholm
                                       700                       4
          1996  Bjorn Odlander         Peder Fredrikson
46-84-42-58-50
Investments: Q-Med, PyroSequencing, Personal Chemistry, Apoxis, Renovo,
Neuro3D, Spinevision. Essentials: Closed $330 mln fund last year;
invests in biotech, Scandanavia & W. Europe
BrainHeart Capital/Stockholm
                                       1,438                     1
          2000  Ulf Jonstromer         Ulf Jonstromer
46-733-77-99-00
Investments: Wireless Car, Clinitrac, Netgame Factory. Essentials:
Wireless and IT, from startup to late stage in Scandanavia
Asia  Global
                      Funds under mgt$millions  Number of funds  Est.
Lead Partner or CEO    contact           phone number
ASIA
AsiaTech/Hong Kong
                      218                       7                1997
James Yao              James Yao         852-2116-6868
Investments: USWeb, Phone.com, Resonext, Eachnet, Resonext, China
Optoelectronics. Essentials: semiconductor, IC design, communications,
infrastructure, software
Crimson Ventures/Hong Kong
                      600                       2                1996
John-Paul Ho           John-Paul Ho      852-2524-8900
Investments: Resonext, Omni Electronics, Transmedia. Essentials:
Outsourced manufacturing, design, services, technology
DragonTech Ventures/Hong Kong
                      90                        2                2000
Roman Shaw             Lynn Ta           852-2501-9712
Investments: Harbour Networks, China TMN. Essentials: Focuses on
high-growth companies in China
HQ Asia Pacific/Hong Kong
                      1600                      16               1985
Hsu Ta-lin             David Kao         852-2858-4800
Investments: MTV Japan, Starbucks Beijing, Good Morning Securities.
Essentials: One of Silicon Valley's longest standing Asian investors
KLM Capital Management/Hong Kong
                      120                       3                1997
Peter Mok              Peter Mok         852-2537-3318
Investments: Phone.com, V-Bits, Syntricity, YesVideo, Metrowave.
Essentials: Semiconductor processing, optical, embedded software
EDB Ventures/Singapore
                      1500                      9                1990
Liow voon Kheong       Liow voon Kheong  65-6336-2288
Investments: United Microelectronics. Essentials: Investment arm of
Singapore's Economic Development Board
Venture TDF/Singapore
                      130                       3                1995
Thomas Ng              Susan Lalik       65-6735-9339
Investments: Redback, Brokat, MediaRing, Sina, Alibaba, P-Cube,
Teralogic. Essentials: Telecom, IT, health care
MKS (former Schroder Ventures)CK /Singapore
                      860                       3                1992
Anil Thadani           Anil Thadani      65-6536-6177
Investments: Aman Resorts, Twinwood. Essentials: Japanese partnership
changed name to MKS
Vertex Management/Singapore*
                      1100                      13               1988
Kheng Nam Lee          Kheng Nam Lee     65-6777-0122
Investments: Gemplus, Centillium, Paypal, HyperRoll, Actimize,
CyberArk. Essentials: Communications, semiconductors, software; now
part of SingTel
Jafco/Tokyo*
                      4000                      20               1973
Toshiaki Ito           Toshiaki Ito      813-5223-7536
Investments: Toshin Corp., Realvision, Cybird. Essentials: Optics,
hardware, software, mobile applications
Olympus Capital/Tokyo
                      600                       5                1997
Dan Mintz, Larry Miao  Daniel Mintz      81-3-5288-6721
Investments: Asia Pacific Resources, Thai Capital, Arysta LifeScience.
Essentials: Active in Asia; financial services; agribusiness;
manufacturing
Softbank (9984 JP)/Tokyo
                      1071**                    listed           1981
Masayoshi Son          Yoshitaka Kitao   81-3-5501-2711
Investments: Yahoo!, E*Trade, CNET. Essentials: The Internet made
founder one of the world's richest men for a few days
WI Harper Group/San Francisco/Hong Kong
                      225                       5                1993
Peter Liu              Michael Lee       886-2-2755-6033
Investments: Celestry, CommerceOne, The Fantastic Corp. TXC.
Essentials: Software, semiconductor, wireless, communications, life
sciences
ChinaVest/San Francisco
                      300                       2                1983
Robert Theleen         Wilson Lee        1-415-276-8888
Investments: Arima Communications. Essentials: IT, media,
communications in Greater China
IDG Ventures/Beijing/Boston
                      580                       6                1992
Pat Kenealy            Pat Kenealy       1-408-437-8880
Investments: F5 Networks, Spinner.com. Essentials: Hardware, software,
internet infrastructure
Walden International/San Francisco*
                      2,000                     36               1987
Lip-Bu Tan             Lip-Bu Tan        1-415-391-7225
Investments: Sina, Premysis, Centillium,1 Leadis, Inphi, Vivato.
Essentials: Gave back $200 mln to investors last year
Infinity Ventures/Mumbai
                      35                        2                1999
Saurabh Srivastava     Pravin Gandhi
Investments: Indiabulls, Aztec, Conosys, Brainvisa, Indiagems,
Epicenter. Essentials: India's first institutionalized angel fund
inspired by The Indus Entrepreneurs
Europe  Global
            Funds under mgt$millions  Number of funds  Est.   Lead
Partner or CEO      contact            phone number
GLOBAL
Baring Private Equity Partners/London
            2,071                     9                1984
Christopher Brotchie     Rachel Lambert     44-20-7290-5000
Investments: Netstar, Euralcom, Topway, Norelco Centreline,
Teploozersky Cement. Essentials: ING subsidiary, emerging market
private equity
The Carlyle Group*
            13,900                    23               1987   William
Conway           Jacques Garaialde  44-207-894-1200
Investments: Cube Optics, Accucard, Le Figaro, Casema, Boto, Asahi
Security Systems. Essentials: Aerospace & defense, automotive,
consumer, industrial, IT
HarbourVest/Boston
            11,000                    9                1982   D.Brooks
Zug             George Anson       1-617-348-3707
Investments: Cyrano, ViaNet Works, Grohe, Kappa Packaging. Essentials:
Communications, networking and industrial in Asia & Europe
JP Morgan Partners/New York*
            24,000                    listed           1984   Jeffrey
Walker           Brooke Harlow      1-212-270-7381
Investments: Haitai Confectionery, Jet Blue, Emerson Electric.
Essentials: Nanotechnology, industrial, financial services, healthcare
Jerusalem Venture Partners/Jerusalem
            600                       4                1993   Erel
Margalit            Glen Schwaber      972-2-640-9000
Investments: Chromatis Networks, CyOptics, Cogent Communications.
Essentials: Now headquartered in New York; invests in Isreali-run
ventures
Texas Pacific Group/Fort Worth
            10,000                    10               1993   David
"Bondo" Bonderman  Stephen Peel       44-20-7544-6500
Investments: Del Monte, Ducati, Gemplus, Punch Taverns. Essentials:
Active in European buyouts and in Asia under Newbridge name
Warburg Pincus/New York*
            13,000                    10               19966  Charles
(Chip) Kaye      Joseph Landy       1-212-878-0600
Investments: Bharti Telecom, LG Card, ZD Soft, Loyalty Management.
Essentials: Raised $5 billion last year, some for global investments
Darby Overseas Investments/ Washington
            800                       5                1994   Richard
Frank            Nicholas Brady     1-202-872-0500
Investments: Banorte, Dixie Toga, GNG Networks of Korea, Gas
TransBoliviano. Essentials: Latin America and Asia; founded by former
U.S. treasury secretary
Europe  Asia


Document fb00000020030331dz3v0000p


More Like This

 Article 278 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: Special Report: Asia Tech 

ASIA TECH China's drive to become a tech superpower is putting pressure on all of its neighbors 

628 words 
14 April 2003
BusinessWeek 
52 
Number 3828 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Obscured by panic over a fast-spreading virus and drumbeats of war in the Persian Gulf, a great race is progressing across Asia. China is determined to be a technological superpower. It is prepared to spend billions of dollars to nurture innovation and new technological standards so its companies can compete with the likes of Microsoft, Intel, and Cisco Systems. Korea is spending just as heavily to make high-speed Internet access as ubiquitous as electric power and to erect a whole new industry upon this fiber-optic foundation. Not about to be outdone, Japan is blazing pathways in so-called intelligent networks and nanotechnology. These are risky frontier sciences, where the less developed countries of the region are unlikely to pose a competitive threat anytime soon. 

There is a pattern here. As an impoverished nation after World War II, Japan protected its home market and latched onto electronics and high-tech manufacturing to jump-start industrial growth. South Korea followed in its footsteps. Now, it's China's turn. But instead of shutting out foreign players, as both Japan and Korea did, Beijing has aggressively courted multinationals to invest in China -- and has even enlisted some to help in crafting China's homegrown technology standards. 

Beijing's latest thrust is putting pressure on all of its neighbors. ``If you are ahead of China, you have to keep on going up,'' says Bob Yang, executive vice-president of the Industrial Technology Research Institute, Taiwan's government-supported research-and-development center. ``Every country around here needs a strategy to cope with China's rise.'' 

But it is Japan and South Korea that feel most keenly threatened by China's maneuvers. Both are placing big bets on communications, and no one in the world of network technology takes their efforts lightly. Last August, Britain dispatched a team to Korea to identify the factors behind its rapid broadband rollout. British Telecom also sent a group of 10 senior execs to see what technology was incubating in Japan's laboratories. What they found, says Koshiro Kitazato, chairman of BT Japan, ``is that everything in Japan, from tech to product development, is geared to fast, ubiquitous networks.'' 

Yet while technological might can translate into economic muscle, it doesn't automatically turn countries into leaders or promote grass-roots effectiveness. In the battle against severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, the infectious disease experts say China has disappointed the international community. As the disease sickened hundreds and threatened the economies of Hong Kong and Singapore, the Chinese government initially hid the damage within its borders and refused to allow international health authorities to investigate. 

On the diplomatic front, Japan and Korea struggle with their own shortcomings. For decades, both countries have followed the foreign-policy dictates of Washington in exchange for a place under the U.S. security net. Now, amid an escalating war of words between the Bush Administration and a nuclear-capable North Korea, Japanese and South Koreans are questioning their governments' subservient relationship to Washington, yet show little ability to affect political policy. 

In other words, competition is driving communications technology to new heights, but communicating globally is not Asia's strongest suit. As the region confronts future crises -- military or molecular -- Asia will bring its technological skills to bear. Microelectronics will be the guts of future weapons systems. High-speed communications networks and computer skills will help these nations respond more quickly to medical crises. Technology, however, won't cure Asia's more subtle ills. Competition among nations will expand Asia's storehouse of abilities and knowledge. Wisdom, in any region, is more elusive. 

Document bw00000020030410dz4e0002d


More Like This

 Article 279 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: Special Report: Asia Tech 

MASTER OF INNOVATION? China aims to close its technology gap with Korea and Japan 

By Bruce Einhorn in Shenzhen 
1,764 words 
14 April 2003
BusinessWeek 
54 
Number 3828 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Wang Chuanfu is a little sleepy these days. The 37-year-old Chinese engineer has been jetting back and forth to the U.S., courting investors in Byd Co. This company, which Wang founded just seven years ago in Shenzhen to make cell-phone batteries, now employs 17,000 workers and has a market capitalization of $1 billion. 

That's not the story Wang is selling, however. Byd aims to be the world's first major producer of cars powered by electric batteries. It's an attractive idea, but one so beset with challenges that most auto giants have given it up. Not least, it requires forging new standards for breakthroughs in technology and manufacturing that would sharply reduce the exorbitant cost of batteries. ``So many companies have failed because they didn't have the right technology,'' says Wang. ``But we have the strongest R&D team in the industry. We have a deeper understanding.'' 

Some say Wang is a visionary. Others call him foolhardy. Either way, he's part of a movement that has transfixed other Asian nations and sent shock waves across the Pacific. Drawing on human and financial resources scattered across Asia and the West, China wants to reinvent itself as the home of innovation -- and wellspring of technical standards that will be adopted throughout the world. Already a production hub for PCs, televisions, and DVD players, the country now yearns to close its technology gap with Korea and Japan. It aims to achieve this by 2008, when Beijing hosts the Olympics. And there is more at stake than prestige: As war rages in Iraq, Beijing's generals are determined to burnish their military might with electronic weaponry, to preempt any future threat from the U.S. 

To raise their stature in global high tech, the Chinese are pursuing a potentially risky strategy. The government is offering subsidies and other sweeteners to companies that come up with homegrown alternatives to Microsoft software, Intel microprocessors, Cisco routers, and other standards that are the building blocks of an information economy. The twin risks are that China will alienate the multinationals it depends on for technology transfer while its focus on originality distracts local companies from the low-cost manufacturing they do best. Nonetheless, in a drive to reduce royalty payments on foreign technology and reward local innovators, Beijing seems intent on setting global standards for everything from digital TVs and DVD players to next-generation cell phones. 

Many in the region believe Beijing's strategy will eventually succeed. While the best Chinese companies still lag far behind the likes of Sony Corp. and Samsung Group, that situation could change quickly. ``China will go from being on the receiving side of technology to the generating side,'' predicts Frans van Empel, chief technology officer for Philips in Shanghai. 

One example of China's quest to create homegrown standards is state-owned Datang Mobile's work with Siemens of Germany to develop a standard called TD-SCDMA for third-generation cell phones. Some industry experts say that phones built to these specifications can transmit data in densely populated areas better than phones built to the standards of Europe and Japan (W-CDMA) and the U.S. (CDMA 2000), while consuming less power. But the new standard holds an even bigger attraction for China, says Tang Ruan, chief operating officer at Datang in Beijing: avoiding the royalties on existing cellular systems that China has had to pay to foreign companies that owned the intellectual property rights. 

The only way to get around those payouts in the future is for Beijing to back a domestic standard. Despite predictions from many Western executives that China's standard will flop, Tang believes TD-SCDMA will win 30% of the market in China and another 10% overseas following its launch next year. 

That may not be so far-fetched. ``China is the biggest market, so once the Chinese government sets a standard, it will be a world standard,'' observes Jung Nam Cho, vice-chairman of SK Telecom Co. of Korea. Whether that turns out to be TD- SCDMA or some other local concoction, the principle is probably correct, says Rich Stomp, a vice-president in IBM's global telecom division. Within a few years, he contends, ``we will see standards emerging from China that the rest of the world will adopt.'' 

Consumer electronics is another area where China wishes to create unique intellectual property. And it's counting on help from local players such as Skyworth Multimedia International Ltd., the nation's third-largest manufacturer of TVs and a top producer of DVD players. Skyworth belongs to the Shanghai-based consortium of 20-odd Chinese companies developing ``enhanced videodisc'' (EVD) players. The EVD Forum hopes to supplant the current DVD standard. That won't be easy, but even a partial triumph would be sweet for Henry Lau, Skyworth's 38-year-old CEO. It would slash the royalty payments Skyworth now pays to Japanese competitors. ``And if Sony and Philips want to sell EVDs, they will need to pay the EVD Forum for a license,'' says Lau. 

If China succeeds in launching important new standards, many secondary benefits would flow. For example, such technology leadership would likely spur the growth of semiconductor design businesses, which typically enjoy higher profit margins than the contract chip-manufacturing facilities China has built so far. The standards-and-design synergy is real: Beijing plans to endorse a new digital-TV standard, and the government-owned Shenzhen State Microelectronics Co. is already working on a circuit design for the new set-top boxes. 

China's chip-design companies are still tiny players on the world stage. But last year, Beijing began setting up seven design hubs around the country that will provide startups with financial support. Results could come quickly. Design revenues are already growing at a 30% annual clip, says U.S. market researcher iSuppli Corp. Moreover, the industry is increasingly becoming integrated with its more mature counterpart in Taiwan. Combine the two, and this ``Greater China'' chip-design industry will surpass that of North America in about six years, accounting for a 40% share of global revenues, according to iSuppli. 

On the mainland alone, the range of China's state-sponsored chip-design work is impressive. Last year, the Chinese Academy of Sciences launched a homegrown microprocessor, dubbed the Godson. Now, Beijing-based engineers are refining that design and aim to unveil a low-cost microprocessor that they hope will become as popular for all sorts of electronic gizmos as Intel Corp.'s chips are for PCs. And in March, university researchers in Shanghai unveiled the first locally developed digital signal processor, a type of chip used in cellular phones and other wireless communication equipment. Today such chips are supplied largely by Texas Instruments Inc. and other Western companies. 

Setting standards in computer software is also a government goal. And, as in chip design, Beijing is seeking to close a yawning gap with the West. In 2001, Chinese companies exported just $720 million in software -- much of it programming work contracted out by U.S. companies. By 2005, Beijing hopes to raise software exports to $5 billion. 

To overcome its shortage of software engineers, Beijing has initiated a $2.4 billion plan to open 35 software colleges. And at least one goal will be to generate original PC software, including operating systems. Of course, Beijing can't dictate the success of these products, but the country's immense size confers some advantages. ``It's only a matter of time before it surpasses everybody'' and becomes the world's largest PC market, says William J. Amelio, Dell Computer Corp.'s president for Asia Pacific. If homegrown software is available, Beijing will expect to see it pre-installed on Chinese PCs -- and companies such as Dell will have no incentive to resist Beijing's wishes. 

China's military leaders are especially interested in becoming more self-reliant in software, says Jerry Huang, head of Hewlett-Packard Co.'s industry standard servers division for China and Hong Kong. When it comes to encryption and other security uses, ``China is ahead or on par with the developed world,'' he says, adding that the People's Liberation Army generals were among ``the earliest adopters of Linux, building systems from the ground up.'' One reason the PLA has been active in boosting Linux is that sales of supercomputer hardware and software to China is restricted under U.S. law. Linux facilitates alternatives to conventional supercomputing. ``They are using Linux to do large-scale clustering -- over 100 servers [working together] in one system,'' says Huang. 

Many factors could inhibit China's efforts to become a technology pioneer, including the absence of mature capital markets and almost no brand recognition for any of its products outside China. Even in chips, a strong suit for China, there are some troubling signs. Beijing is counting on greater integration with Taiwan's chip industry to smooth the way to a lucrative future in chip design. But the Taiwanese themselves are struggling to keep pace with industry leaders such as Intel and IBM (box). The risk for Beijing is that it will throw a lot of resources at homegrown standards that end up with little commercial value outside China, while failing to upgrade the nation's all-important manufacturing base. Even if China's chip-design industry rockets ahead by 2006, as iSuppli predicts, ``two generations of technology will still remain between most local integrated-circuit companies and major foreign counterparts,'' notes a recent iSuppli report. 

China's shortcomings bring relief to other Asian nations. As much as Korea and Japan count on China as a manufacturing base and a market, they have no desire to compete with it in the upper reaches of electronics, software, and emerging fields such as nanotechnology. Ironically, their struggles to stay a few steps ahead of the giant are bound to inspire China's best minds to reach even higher. The inventions, technical standards, and scientific ideas that emerge from this arms race of innovation will inevitably reorder the corporate hierarchies within Asia's borders -- and beyond. 

Illustration: Chart: GREATER CHINA IS CLIMBING THE TECH LADDER CHART BY RAY VELLA/BW Photograph: BYD WANTS TO BE THE WORLD'S FIRST MAJOR PRODUCER OF BATTERY-POWERED CARS PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HU/ASSIGNMENT ASIA Photograph: IN PURSUIT OF HOMEGROWN TECH PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG GIRARD/DOCUMENTCHINA 


Document bw00000020030410dz4e0002e


More Like This

 Article 280 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: Special Report: Asia Tech 

JAPAN: A TINY LEAP FORWARD Nanotech may revive its industry 

By Irene M. Kunii in Tokyo 
1,382 words 
14 April 2003
BusinessWeek 
58 
Number 3828 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Armed with a powerful microscope, Sumio Iijima aims to build a new world. He's a leading researcher in nanotechnology, the burgeoning field of creating new materials and devices by using atoms and molecules as building blocks. Working at NEC Corp.'s central research laboratories north of Tokyo, Iijima in 1991 unearthed a new form of carbon, a cigar-shaped molecule called a carbon nanotube. That was six years after Richard E. Smalley's discovery of soccer-ball-like carbon molecules, or buckyballs, for which the Rice University professor won the 1996 Nobel prize in chemistry. 

Today, Iijima is manipulating strands of another carbon material that he found in 1998: cone-shaped tubes dubbed nanohorns. Like nanotubes, the tiny horns are up to 100 times stronger than steel. They measure just a few nanometers in diameter, or roughly 1/50,000th the size of a human hair, and tens to hundreds of nanometers long. But nanohorns have a novel feature. They can be hooked together in clusters to form electrodes -- a key component of fuel cells, which generate electricity by chemically combining hydrogen and oxygen. A small one with 10 times the juice of lithium-ion batteries may make its debut late this year for mobile phones and laptop computers. ``This could trigger an energy revolution,'' says Iijima. 

The work at NEC has earned international acclaim. But it is noteworthy for more than its scientific merits. Such efforts represent Japan's best hope of building a new engineering and manufacturing infrastructure based on a near-perfect mastery of molecular assembly. Because the underlying science is so complex, Japanese companies hope they can stay ahead of global rivals. ``Japan fell behind in info tech and biotech, but this is one field where we're determined to lead,'' declares Hisanori Shinohara, a Nagoya University nanomaterials expert. 

Japanese scientists don't expect a slam dunk. Already, they note, South Korea's Samsung Electronics Co. is building nanotubes into newfangled flat-panel TVs. And major research initiatives are under way in Europe and the U.S. Indeed, around the world, experts are counting on nanotech to transform a host of industries -- computers, drugs, and plastics, to name a few. The Pentagon foresees featherweight bulletproof uniforms made with nanotube fibers. The aeronautics industry envisions supertough coatings for planes. 

Yet, proportionate to its population and gross domestic product, Japan is outspending other countries. In 2002, Tokyo budgeted $1 billion for nano R&D, up from $120 million five years earlier. Over the next five years, government funding could jump to $50 billion or more. Analysts estimate that major corporations, including Hitachi, Mitsubishi, and Toray Industries, pumped $1 billion of their own money into nano-related projects last year and will cough up still more this year. 

With some wild-eyed forecasts of nanotech's market potential topping $200 billion by 2010, Washington has turned on the faucet, too -- allocating more than $1 billion in R&D funding since 2000. But the two national thrusts are not identical. While the U.S. leads in nanobiology and electronics, Japan excels in complex materials. When it comes to applications, Japan is coming on ``very strong and driving more products to market faster,'' says F. Mark Modzelewski, executive director of trade group NanoBusiness Alliance in New York. 

For example, Nissan Motor Co.'s X-Trail sport-utility vehicle has front fenders made of a lightweight composite reinforced with nanotubes. Sony Corp., a leading supplier of lithium-ion batteries for portable gizmos, is making a version that replaces some normal graphite electrodes with the same tubular molecules to prolong the battery's life. And scientists at Inri Inc., a venture founded last October by trading house Mitsui & Co., have devised a nano filter that is highly efficient at processing ethanol, a fuel for ``green'' cars. A pilot plant now going up in Brazil is expected to produce ethanol from sugar cane at half the cost of current methods. 

Nanotechnologists are working with many materials other than carbon nanotubes, but Iijima's offspring are probably the favorite building blocks for most applications now on drawing boards. Originally, nanotubes were Russian doll-like structures -- a tube within a tube inside another tube. Researchers have since learned how to produce single- and double-wall nanotubes as well. And Iijima showed how the properties of each tube can be controlled -- to function as a conductor of heat and electricity, a semiconductor, or an insulator -- depending on the orientation of its carbon atoms. As researchers develop better methods for tailoring the wide range of nanotube combinations, the already expansive product list can only grow. Among the items due to hit markets soon are new flat-panel displays. Several Japanese companies, including Mitsubishi Electric Corp., are working on energy-saving flat panels, using double-wall nanotubes, for computer displays and TVs. 

Iijima's research on fuel cells for phones and laptops is now being applied to a bigger challenge: a low-cost fuel cell for cars. The fuel cells in today's prototype cars typically use an expensive platinum catalyst -- one reason that the fuel cell accounts for about half of the car's total cost. ``If we can develop a nanohorn version, this could be a very big market,'' says Iijima. Toyota Motor Corp., meanwhile, has another idea up its sleeve. In collaboration with Nagoya's Shinohara, it is braiding nanotubes into ropes for storing hydrogen in fuel-cell cars. 

Japanese chip and optical communication companies are also betting big on nano-technology. To NEC and Hitachi, nanotube transistors seem just the ticket for superchips that won't overheat. At Fujitsu Ltd. and Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp., scientists hope to build circuits by laying nanotubes on silicon. First, though, they must figure out how to control more precisely the density and size of nanotubes. ``Once we've mastered that, their performance will be spectacular,'' asserts Junichi Sone, head of NEC's R&D. 

Exotic applications aside, Japan aims to be a top supplier of nanotubes themselves. Two years ago, total world output of nanotubes was only around a ton a year. Late last year, Mitsui began ramping up production of multiwall nanotubes and next year may churn out 10 tons a month. And Toray Industries Inc., Japan's largest textile manufacturer, is building a plant to make double-wall nanotubes for flat-panel displays. 

Now come the nano startups. Shunichi Osawa, a Daiwa Research Institute analyst, estimates that Japan already has about 100 nanotech ventures. That pales in comparison to the U.S., which launched 1,000 nano-related startups last year alone. To compensate for the lack of a venture-capital culture at home, Japanese companies are also investing in promising U.S. and European ventures, funding research at overseas universities, and even forging links with Asian companies that could turn into future rivals. ``Japanese companies need all kinds of collaboration if they hope to survive,'' explains Naoki Yokoyama, head of Fujitsu Ltd.'s Nanotechnology Research Center. 

On the home front, nanotech venture capitalists have raised $250 million in the past two years from such backers as Hitachi, Mitsubishi, and Marubeni Corp. Next, the VCs hope to enlarge their pool of funds substantially, then nourish a vibrant entrepreneurial climate in nanotech. Japan's drive to become a nano powerhouse could be just the start of a cultural transformation as well. 


The Nano Market
Japan foresees a golden future in nanotechnology...
(Global sales by all companies, 2005 )
ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATIONS
Semiconductors, network devices
$7.6 BILLION
MATERIALS & PROCESSING
Cosmetics, displays, computer storage
$3.9 BILLION
SENSORS & MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS
$5.2 BILLION
ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT
Fuel cells, biomass production
$0.94 BILLION
SPACE & AERONAUTICS
$1.9 BILLION
Data: Japan Business Federation (Keidanren)
...And it is outspending all other countries to get there
(Government spending on nanotech, in millions of $U.S.)
                2001                2002
JAPAN           $600                1000
U.S.            422                 550
E.U.            300 *               450 **
SOUTH KOREA     70                  186
CHINA           50                  60
TAIWAN          36                  45
* Germany accounted for $150 million
** Germany $200 million
Data: nABACUS Ltd.


Photograph: IIJIMA: THE DISCOVERER OF CARBON NANOTUBES PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM WAGNER/CORBIS SABA 


Document bw00000020030410dz4e0002g


More Like This

 Article 281 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: Readers Report 

SURGING AHEAD IN NANOTECHNOLOGY

155 words 
21 April 2003
BusinessWeek 
7 
Number 3829 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

The misleading implications in your article about Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., ``TSMC: Trying to keep up with the pack'' (Asia Tech Special Report, Apr. 14), require comments. TCSM's 130-nanometer production is far ahead of what appears in the article. It accounted for around 10% of our revenue in the fourth quarter of 2002 and will jump to 25% by the end of this year, instead of next year. It is a solid fact that currently more than a dozen of our customers are utilizing the 130-nanometer technology in volume production to their satisfaction. 

In the meantime, TSMC is one of the leaders in 90-nanometer technology. Fully functional test chips were successfully produced in the fourth quarter of 2001. Production of 90-nanometer on 300-millimeter wafers for customers will start in the third quarter. 

Harvey Chang 

Chief Financial Officer 

TSMC 

Hsinchu, Taiwan 

Document bw00000020030417dz4l00002


More Like This

 Article 282 *******************    



Science & Technology: Nanotechnology

JAPAN: A TINY LEAP FORWARD The country is mastering molecular assembly -- and that could revive its high-tech industries 

By Irene M. Kunii in Tokyo 
1,054 words 
21 April 2003
BusinessWeek 
75 
Number 3829 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

Armed with a powerful microscope, Sumio Iijima aims to build a new world. He's a leading researcher in nanotechnology, the burgeoning field of creating novel materials and devices by using atoms and molecules as building blocks. Working at NEC Corp.'s central research laboratories north of Tokyo, Iijima in 1991 discovered an exotic form of carbon, a cigar-shaped molecule called a carbon nanotube. Now, he's manipulating strands of another new carbon material that he found in 1998: curved, conical tubes dubbed nanohorns. 

Like the original tubes, nanohorns are up to 100 times stronger than steel and measure a few nanometers in diameter, or roughly 1/50,000th the size of a human hair. But nanohorns have another unusual feature. They can be hooked together in clusters to form electrodes -- a key component of fuel cells, which generate electricity by chemically combining hydrogen and oxygen. One with 10 times the juice of lithium-ion batteries may make its debut late this year for mobile phones and laptop computers. ``This could trigger an energy revolution,'' says Iijima. 

The work at NEC has earned international acclaim from scientists. But pure science is just part of the attraction. Japanese see nanotech as their best hope of building a new engineering and manufacturing infrastructure based on a near-perfect mastery of molecular assembly. ``Japan fell behind in info tech and biotech, but this is one field where we're determined to lead,'' declares Hisanori Shinohara, a Nagoya University nanomaterials expert. 

Japanese researchers don't expect a slam dunk. Major initiatives are under way in Europe and the U.S. Indeed, around the world, experts are counting on nanotech to transform a host of industries -- computers, drugs, and plastics, to name a few. The Pentagon foresees featherweight bulletproof uniforms made with nanotube fibers. The aeronautics industry envisions supertough coatings for planes. 

Yet, proportionate to its population and gross domestic product, Japan is outspending other countries. In 2002, Tokyo budgeted $1 billion for nano research and development, up from $120 million five years earlier. Over the next five years, government funding could jump to tens of billions of dollars. Analysts estimate that major corporations, including Hitachi, Mitsubishi, and Toray Industries, pumped $1 billion of their own money into nano-related projects last year and will cough up still more this year. 

With some wild-eyed forecasts of nanotech's market potential topping $200 billion by 2010, Washington has turned on the faucet, too -- allocating more than $1 billion in R&D funding since 2000. But in applications involving complex materials, which Japan considers its forte, the Japanese are coming on ``very strong and driving more products to market faster,'' says F. Mark Modzelewski, executive director of trade group NanoBusiness Alliance in New York. 

For example, Nissan Motor Co.'s X-Trail sport-utility vehicle has front fenders made of a lightweight composite reinforced with nanotubes. Sony Corp., a leading supplier of lithium-ion batteries for portable gizmos, is now replacing some normal graphite electrodes with the same molecular tubes to extend battery life. Scientists at Inri Inc., a venture founded last October by trading house Mitsui & Co., have devised a nanocrystal filter that is more efficient at processing ethanol, a fuel for ``green'' cars. A pilot plant is now going up in Brazil and is expected to produce ethanol from sugar cane at half the cost of current methods. 

Iijima's research on fuel cells for phones and laptops may lead to a bigger challenge: a low-cost fuel cell for cars. The fuel cells in today's prototype cars typically use an expensive platinum catalyst -- one reason that the fuel cell accounts for about half of the car's total cost. ``If we can develop a nanohorn version, this could be a very big market,'' says Iijima. Toyota Motor Corp., meanwhile, has another idea up its sleeve: braiding nanotubes into ropes that can store the hydrogen used by fuel-cell cars. 

Nanotechnologists are working with many materials other than carbon nanotubes, but Iijima's offspring are the favorite building blocks for most applications now heading to market. For this year's holiday season, South Korea's Samsung Electronics Co. plans to introduce TVs featuring flat screens built with nanotubes from Japan. Several Japanese companies are also working on energy-saving flat panels, using nanotubes, for TVs and computers. Toray Industries Inc., Japan's largest textile maker, is building a plant to make nanotubes for this purpose. 

Japanese chip and optical communications companies are betting big on the new technology. To NEC and Hitachi Ltd., nanotube transistors seem just the ticket for superchips that won't overheat. At Fujitsu Ltd. and Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp., entire nanotube circuits are the goal. First, though, they must figure out how to control more precisely the density and size of the nanotubes. ``Once we've mastered that, their performance will be spectacular,'' asserts Junichi Sone, head of NEC's R&D. 

Given all the expected demand for nanotubes, Japan also plans to be a top raw-materials supplier. Two years ago, total world output of nanotubes was only around a ton a year. Late last year, Mitsui started ramping up production of these materials, and next year may churn out 10 tons a month. 

Japan's nanotech trust is also spawning startups -- something still rare in this country. Shunichi Osawa, a Daiwa Research Institute analyst, estimates Japan already has about 100 nanotech ventures. That pales in comparison to the U.S., which launched 1,000 nano-related startups last year alone. So Japanese companies are also investing in promising U.S. and European ventures, funding research at overseas universities, and even forging links with Asian companies. ``Japanese companies need all kinds of collaboration if they hope to survive,'' explains Naoki Yokoyama, head of Fujitsu's Nanotechnology Research Center. With newly minted Japanese venture capitalists rushing into the field, it's clear that the nano revolution won't just sweep away old models of industry. This could be the start of a cultural transformation as well. 

Photograph: IIJIMA: THE DISCOVERER OF CARBON NANOTUBES PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM WAGNER/CORBIS SABA 


Document bw00000020030417dz4l00024


More Like This

 Article 283 *******************    



Technology Journal 
Digits 

Digits 

1,002 words 
24 April 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B6 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[Gambits & Gadgets in the World of Technology] 

Alma Pater 

Robert H. Waterston helped decipher the human genome but claims he couldn't crack the case of the mystery donor. Since January, Dr. Waterston has held the William H. Gates III chair in Biomedical Sciences at the University of Washington. A phone call last year from Mr. Gates -- the Microsoft Corp. chairman better known as Bill -- helped convince him to jump ship from Washington University in St. Louis. As part of the recruitment package, UW officials assured Dr. Waterston they had secured funds for a $150 million building to house his new Department of Genome Sciences. But in the name of academic independence, they claim they didn't identify the donor and Dr. Waterston claims he didn't know who it was. 

There is no surprise ending. Today, the university is expected to announce that the Gates Foundation is providing $70 million to complete the 265,000-square-foot building and support genomic research on diseases of the developing world. Mr. Gates isn't sure Dr. Waterston was ever really stumped. "Let's just say he had the confidence he needed to come," Mr. Gates says with a laugh. 

Dr. Waterston's arrival and the new building are part of the university's plan to make Seattle a leading hub of biotechnology. Bioengineers will be housed alongside genomic scientists to nurture the emerging field of computational biology. With the human genome essentially complete and the mouse genome not far behind, the next phase is the development of gene-specific tests, vaccines and drugs. "What we don't have is any kind of systemic, clear-cut way of going from the genome to improving health," Dr. Waterston says. 

The fit with the Gates Foundation's broader initiatives in global health helped Mr. Gates set aside his general predisposition against funding building projects and in favor of more engaged, high-leverage philanthropy. But the real impetus came from his father. Bill Gates Sr. is not only a member of UW's board of regents but heads the university's $2 billion capital campaign. Mr. Gates's late mother and a sister also graduated from the university. As co-chairman of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the elder Mr. Gates committed funds to the university last spring, with his son's approval. 

"In a way it doesn't fit our normal categories," the younger Mr. Gates says. "But if my dad starts running other fund-raising campaigns, I may have to start doing more of these." 

Big Spender 

Many technology companies traditionally have shied away from the federal government as a source of business. But that may change as federal spending on information-technology products and services goes up. 

A new forecast of U.S. government spending projects it will increase at a compound annual growth rate of 8.5% between fiscal 2003 and 2008. That is a lot more activity than what is expected by the private sector. A recent survey conducted by analysts at the investment firm Goldman Sachs found that executives who buy information-technology equipment anticipated spending to rise only 1% this year. 

Not surprisingly, homeland security and e-government initiatives remain the highest priorities for the government, says Payton Smith, manager of federal market analysis at Input, the Chantilly, Va., research firm that conducted the forecast. 

Smart Money? 

Nanotechnology, the direct manipulation molecules and atoms to create new products, has been buzzed about for some time as the next new thing -- even though experts say commercial applications are years away. 

Today, a much-talked-about Palo Alto, Calif., company, Nanosys Inc., is announcing it has attracted what these days passes for real money: $30 million in a second round of financing from top-tier venture capitalists that include Polaris Venture Partners, Venrock Associates and offshore investors like the China Development Industrial Bank. That gives Nanosys a $47 million war chest. 

The company, which is developing nanowires, nanotubes and nanodots, is moving to first create chemical and biological sensors. Along the way, it is scooped up 75 patents held by top scientists in the field, including Harvard University's Charles Lieber. Nanosys also has attracted some tech luminaries to its board, including Bob Metcalfe, a father of data-networking technology called the Ethernet, and Silicon Valley marketing pioneer Regis McKenna. 

Nanotechnology, the direct manipulation molecules and atoms to create new products, has been buzzed about for some time as the next new thing -- even though experts say commercial applications are years away. 

Goodbye, World 

Trying to shed the image of history's biggest case of corporate fraud, officials at WorldCom Inc. aren't wasting any time in changing the name to MCI. 

The name change won't be official until it emerges from bankruptcy early in the fall. But company officials moved to wipe any mention of WorldCom as soon as they announced their reorganization plan last week. 

There was lots of name changing to do, even though MCI has been used as WorldCom's consumer long-distance brand since the company was acquired in 1998. No less than 13,000 signs had to be changed to MCI, along with the rebranding of 48,000 Web pages and the printing and delivering of 250,000 invoices with new logos. 

Even WorldCom's critics were forced to follow suit. Mitch Marcus, a former WorldCom employee who founded the Web site BoycottWorldCom.com, announced that he was changing the name of his Web site to BoycottMCI.com. In announcing the change, Mr. Marcus said that he needed to make the switch so that consumers didn't get "fooled again," as he warned that the name change wouldn't alter the company's "sordid" past. 

An MCI spokesman replied, "With all the great changes going on, we look forward to winnings the hearts and minds, and business of all of our critics, including Mr. Marcus." 

--- 

Digits was compiled by Ann Grimes with contributions from David Bank and Rebecca Blumenstein. 

Document j000000020030424dz4o0005t


More Like This

 Article 284 *******************    



Special Report 

COLLEGES IN CRISIS As costs spin out of control, funding is in retreat. Bottom line: Some fundamental changes lie ahead 

By William C. Symonds 
3,508 words 
28 April 2003
BusinessWeek 
72 
Number 3830 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

The students at Virginia Tech should have been jubilant. On a sunny Friday last October, the Hokies, their beloved football team, was still undefeated. But as 2,500 students gathered on Drill Field -- the grassy heart of this conservative institution in Blacksburg, Va., rich in military traditions -- they were organized for an angry protest against looming cuts in classes and teachers. Storming onto the field, they assembled in formation to spell ``CUT THIS?'' in huge letters. 

To no avail. The following week, the state slashed its appropriation for Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University, to bring the total cut to $62 million, or 23% of the aid the college normally gets. In response, the school raised tuition to $5,095 for the coming year, up 38% since the fall of 2001. Worse, in that time it has eliminated 154 teaching positions and nearly 400 course sections. ``Classes have gotten a lot larger, and many [courses] are no longer offered,'' says Sterling Daniel, student government president. ``Students are pretty irritated [that] their education is being compromised.'' President Charles W. Steger is on their side: ``Are we seeing the abrogation of the implied contract between a state and her citizens?'' 

Similar dramas are playing out across the country. At the 63,000-student Dallas County Community College District in Texas, a 12% budget cut is making it tough to provide enough classes to meet a 20% jump in enrollment since 2001. The 403,000-student State University of New York (SUNY) has proposed a 35% tuition increase. Last fall, 16 states jacked up tuition by more than 10%, and this fall promises to be worse. 

The democratization of its higher education system was one of America's great 20th century achievements. Before World War II, college was reserved for an elite minority. Since then, generous financial aid programs, coupled with large taxpayer subsidies of public universities and community colleges, helped to usher in a tenfold increase in enrollments. The U.S. became the first nation to embrace mass higher education, gaining an enormous advantage in a world economy that puts increasing value on knowledge workers. 

But suddenly, this cornerstone of the U.S. economy is threatened by escalating costs, diminished revenues, and a troubling inability to manage the crisis. College costs ``are rising faster than any other major sector of the economy except health care,'' says Patrick Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy & Higher Education. Many factors are responsible, including some created by the institutions themselves, from huge inefficiencies to rampant tuition discounting at many private colleges. The elite schools, meanwhile -- such as Yale, Brown, and Harvard -- have massive endowments that largely insulate them from the squeeze, creating a world apart. They keep adding costly programs and fancy facilities to attract the best students but in the process have fueled a veritable arms race that's crippling many poorer private colleges trying frantically to keep up. Indeed, in early April, Moody's Investors Service downgraded the debt of 18 private colleges, the largest number in years. 

Meanwhile, public universities and community colleges, where 80% of undergraduates are enrolled, are having to shoulder the expense of a tidal wave of new students, as the children of baby boomers hit college age. Because a larger share of these are from poor, immigrant, and minority families, they require additional finan-cial aid and often cost more to educate because they arrive at college generally less well-prepared academically. 

At the same time, the revenues of public and most private colleges have run smack into an ivy-covered brick building. The public systems are being squeezed as many state governments face their worst budget crises in 60 years. The country's 1,600-plus private colleges are crimped by falling endowments and donations, just as more students are unable or unwilling to pay the full retail price. ``American higher education is confronting a perfect storm of more limited public resources, increasing demand, and an increasingly difficult-to-serve customer base of poor and minority students,'' warns David Longanecker, executive director of the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education. 

A vanguard of colleges has begun to grapple with the problem and is winning what amount to big productivity gains through technology. Ohio State University redesigned its core statistics course by reducing time spent in class, instead offering a rich menu of online components that allows students to work on material more relevant to their majors. The payoff? ``We've opened up 150 new slots for students and cut the cost of offering the course by 31%,'' says Susan Metros, the university's executive director for e-learning. Campus operations, too, are ripe for efficiencies. At Harvard University, consultants McKinsey & Co. recently told President Lawrence H. Summers that the university could save up to $30 million a year just by consolidating its purchasing power. So Harvard brought its law, business, and other schools together to seek competitive bids for all their computer equipment, a contract won by IBM that will save Harvard $3 million a year. 

Some colleges have reinvented themselves completely to keep afloat. Champlain College in Burlington, Vt., has gone so far as to eliminate tenure, varsity sports, and a dozen marginal majors to keep tuition at $12,300 a year, vs. $18,000 at the average private college. The once-struggling school now runs a $2 million surplus -- money it's pouring into new buildings. ``We can't afford the old management styles that have existed for decades,'' insists President Roger Perry. 

But so far, such efforts remain paltry. In most other industries, such mounting pressures would have led to drastic cost-cutting and radical new strategies. Higher education is one of the few sectors of the U.S. economy that has not seriously restructured. Partly, that's because education is essentially a social good, provided mostly by nonprofit institutions in an environment in which the traditional laws of market economics have never really applied. On average, for example, tuition covers only about a third of total costs, with government subsidies and private donations making up the balance, estimates Gordon Winston, a Williams College economics professor. 

What's more, the presidents of large universities have much less control than a CEO does over a company. Most schools have decentralized power structures, with quasi-independent specialty schools such as law and medicine, as well as hospitals, labs, and academic institutes. Many of these entities have their own budgets and don't rely on the parent university, so it's difficult for presidents unilaterally to order up cost-saving measures. More than that, it's not likely to be a high priority. Although they're acutely aware of the tightening financial vise, university presidents often shun even the easy reforms. They're less interested in efficiency than in competing to boost quality -- which only intensifies the cost pressures. After all, many insist, a college's mission is to educate students and advance knowledge, not produce black ink. 

So as states continue to scale back support, the burden of getting a degree is pushed increasingly onto students. That squeezes all students, but those from low-income families could soon be hit hardest of all. In effect, in an age in which a sheepskin has become as important as a high school diploma was to earlier generations, higher education is being treated increasingly as a private goal instead of a public mission. Dwindling funds for financial aid programs, which lag exploding tuition costs, only exacerbate the problem. ``We are heading toward reduced access, reduced quality, and reduced competitiveness in the international economy,'' warns David Ward, president of the American Council on Education (ACE). If more students can't afford a BA, more white-collar jobs could flow to countries like India, with fast-growing educated workforces. Worries Patrick Callan: ``This may be the first generation in American history that won't be better educated'' than its predecessors. 

Add it all up, and there's a growing danger that higher ed will be less able to deliver on its historic promise of providing a ticket up the socioeconomic ladder. Instead of giving motivated students the chance to offset the disadvantages of poverty, college will ``become one more force toward stratification,'' says Williams President Morton O. Schapiro. 

Higher ed is in so much trouble partly because its executives are almost culturally averse to even some of the most obvious business fixes. Remarkably, most colleges don't even know how much they spend to educate a student. After months of hearings, the congressionally appointed National Commission on the Cost of Higher Education came up mostly empty-handed in 1998, concluding that ``many academic institutions have permitted a veil of obscurity to settle over their financial operations.'' 

Still, it's possible to paint a broad-brush picture. The U.S. shelled out about $240 billion on higher ed in the 1999-2000 academic year, according to an analysis of the latest Education Dept. data by ACE. Although this figure isn't perfectly comparable to earlier years, it suggests that total spending has been climbing at a 6% annual pace, more than twice the pace of inflation (charts). 

Part of what's driving up spending is simply that there are more brains to educate. Undergraduate enrollment has climbed by 8% since 1999, to more than 13 million, requiring more teachers, labs, and classrooms. Enrollment at the 415,000-student California State University system is growing by 25,000 a year. To meet the demand, it will have to recruit 1,000 faculty a year and boost spending by 9% annually. 

Even where enrollment is stable, many costs outstrip inflation. Just to keep pace with the explosion of pricey technical journals, college library budgets have climbed 113% since 1986, almost twice the inflation rate, according to the Association of Research Libraries. The tab for personnel -- colleges' single biggest expense -- is also hard to control. It's not so much tenure blocking the ability of colleges to dump costly faculty but the price wars that regularly break out among schools vying for top scholars in a given field. That has been a key factor driving up faculty pay, which has outpaced inflation by more than 50% since 1997, according to the American Association of University Professors (AAUP). Administrative overhead has exploded, too, as universities add layers of marketing and public-relations staff -- and ratchet up college presidents' pay. Former University of Michigan President Lee C. Bollinger decamped for Columbia University after turning down a $500,000 annual salary from Michigan that came with a year's sabbatical paid at that rate, plus a further $500,000 in deferred compensation over five years. College board members often come from business ``and tend to judge competence in terms of pay,'' so they inflate top-level salaries, notes Mary Burgan, general secretary of the AAUP. 

Four-year universities have an extra burden: the mounting expense of cutting-edge subjects such as molecular biology or genomics. To offer courses in fast-changing fields, many colleges are shelling out big bucks to hire new faculty and build costly research facilities. Williams College, for example, sank $46 million into a new science center, a capital cost equal to $23,000 for each of its students (page 79). 

Even many traditional courses are more expensive these days, as science faculties, for example, require everything from supercomputers to electron microscopes. Teaching a basic course in chemical engineering today runs about $360 per credit hour at the University of Delaware, vs. just $100 an hour for philosophy. Such courses have proliferated as more students take basic science courses. The number of undergrad degrees in biology has surged by 60% since 1990, to 64,000. ``Much of our enrollment growth has been in fields that are more expensive to teach,'' says Michael F. Middaugh, Delaware's vice-president for institutional research. 

The smart administrators are finding ways to cope by tackling bloat in the ivory tower. Management consultants Bain & Co. recently found that 24 Massachusetts public college campuses, most of which are now run as separate fiefdoms, could save a total of $100 million just by centralizing purchasing and streamlining their back-office functions. 

At the University of Central Florida, in Orlando, President John C. Hitt has launched an all-out campaign for efficiency in the face of dwindling state support and a doubling of enrollment in a decade, to nearly 40,000. Classrooms, which sit empty much of the day at many colleges, are now used from 7:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. That helped the space crunch, as did Web-enhanced courses that meet just once a week and require most work to be done online. UCF has even scrapped small flower beds in favor of cheaper-to-maintain larger ones, while standardizing purchases of everything from carpets to toilet valves. The payoff? UCF spends just 4.4% of its core academic and administration budget on operations and maintenance, vs. the 7%-plus common at comparable public universities. 

Similarly, some private colleges are achieving impressive savings by working with nearby schools. In Minnesota's Twin Cities, Macalester College and four others with a combined enrollment of around 11,000 have saved $1 million a year by collectively buying copiers, printer cartridges, and other supplies. The five colleges also work together to avoid duplicating low-demand courses. Italian, for instance, is offered primarily by Hamline University. Now the consortium, Associated Colleges of the Twin Cities (ACTC), has hired two veteran business execs to recruit other colleges. It wants to pool purchases of uniforms, insurance, and even trees and shrubs. ``We're seeing opportunities around every corner,'' says ACTC Executive Director Jim Smiley, a former US West executive. 

But there's one cost the country's elite colleges, at least, can't seem to tame: the ruinously expensive race to boost prestige. The wealthy ones are almost obsessed in their drive to attract high school grads with the best grades and test scores, thereby climbing up the influential college rankings. The top hundred or so schools, public and private alike, try to match or even top one another with fancy facilities, famous professors, and generous financial-aid programs. Yale is shelling out $500 million to bolster its science programs. Brown plans to hire 100 new faculty, a 20% increase, and is building a $92 million life sciences center. Such competition pushes up the cost of higher ed by up to two percentage points a year, estimates James E. Morley, president of the National Association of College & University Business Officers (NACUBO). 

This has raised the bar dramatically for the less-well-endowed schools. For decades, Boston's Northeastern University provided a low-cost, practical education to a largely blue-collar student body. But today, President Richard M. Freeland believes NU must jump from being a third-tier college into the top 100. To elevate the school's image and draw top talent and students, he has launched a massive building program, expanded biotechnology and nanotechnology, and beefed-up financial aid. The price tag: debt of $540 million, twice that of 2000. The sticker price for resident freshmen will hit $35,060 this fall, up 34% since 1998. ``We need to achieve quality that matches our costs,'' says Freeland. 

At the same time as costs spiral out of sight, endowments have plunged by 10% in the past two years, the first two-year decline in 25 years. That's partly because the fallen stock market is undercutting colleges' investment holdings. But new donations fell 1.2% last year, to $24 billion, the first drop in 15 years, according to a recent survey by the RAND Corp. So while colleges are sitting on $50 billion more than they had four years ago, they still must adjust. The richest have suffered the largest losses, since more than half of the country's $222 billion in college endowments is held by the three dozen wealthiest universities, such as Harvard, Princeton, and Duke, according to NACUBO. Duke plans to cut up to 50 faculty, while Stanford will slice operating funds by $25 million, or about 4%. 

Meanwhile, fewer students are paying the full sticker price, sending the weakest private colleges into a tailspin. In the past decade, the average private college tuition has doubled, to $18,000 a year. To remain affordable, private colleges -- led by lower-ranked schools with small endowments -- have jacked up their financial aid offers by nearly 200%, to $6,000 per student, according to the National Association of Independent Colleges & Universities. Nearly 80% of their students now get aid, vs. 63% a decade ago. 

The financial drain is worse when aid is used as a competitive weapon. Most of it still goes to poor and middle-class students, but about one-third is now used for pure merit grants. These discounts further undercut revenue: The average private college rebates fully 40% of its tuition income to students, up from 25% in 1990, says Mercy College President Lucie Lapovsky, who conducts an annual survey of the practice for NACUBO. ``It's become a vicious cycle,'' she laments. 

Some smaller private colleges are getting squeezed out of the market completely. Wisconsin's Mt. Senario closed its doors last August after years of struggle. It was debt-free as recently as 1995 but took on short-term debt to fund desperately needed improvements, even as students demanded more aid. By last year, the $17,000 annual bill for a deteriorating program had cut enrollment nearly in half, to 250. The school had little choice but to close and put the woodsy compound up for sale. 

A few pioneers, though, have junked rampant discounting, instead lowering tuition for all. Muskingum College, a liberal arts campus in Ohio, slashed tuition 29% in 1996, to $9,850. Since then, applications have doubled, the student body has grown 60%, and Muskingum is doing so well financially that it's putting up its first new academic building in 30 years. ``Higher education has to find more creative ways to make their product reachable,'' says former AT&T Executive Vice-President Harold Burlingame, who chairs Muskingum's board of trustees. 

If the private colleges are struggling, the public ones are hurting that much more. State spending on higher ed inched up just 1.2% in the current academic year, after climbing more than 6% a year in the 1990s, according to the Center for the Study of Education Policy at Illinois State University. Next year, as states face collective deficits of some $70 billion, the number is likely to head down for the first time in a decade. 

With so little largesse coming from the states, asks University of Colorado President Elizabeth Hoffman, why not seek more freedom? So Hoffman has asked the legislature to grant CU ``enterprise status.'' That would ``give us far more flexibility to set tuition'' and other policies, she says. After all, Denver provides only 10% of her budget anyway -- the rest comes from tuition, a hospital, and other contracts. Likewise, Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney wants to make that state's flagship institutions, the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, more independent of the state system and more reliant on tuition. 

Most state schools don't have that luxury. The regional systems, which serve 3.5 million students, including many immigrant and blue-collar youth, still rely on the states for 40% of their budgets. Community colleges are more vulnerable since they get up to 80% of their funds from state and local governments. Yet these schools will bear the brunt of the coming enrollment boom. Texas expects to add 500,000 students by 2015, even as its flagship schools -- University of Texas at Austin and Texas A&M -- are capping enrollment. 

As the U.S. system of higher education heads into the 21st Century, the challenges are clear. Do taxpayers come up with more money for colleges, demanding in return better-run systems and more accountability? Or should fewer kids aim for a college degree? With a financial crisis looming, these tough questions are becoming ever more urgent. 

Photograph: SENDING A MESSAGE The threat of teacher and course cutbacks prompted this Virginia Tech protest PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN McCORMICK/VIRGINIA TECH Illustration: Chart: COSTS ARE SOARING...BUT REVENUES AREN'T KEEPING PACE... CHART BY ERIC HOFFMANN/BW Photograph: OUTSIDE THE BOX The University of Colorado's Hoffman wants more freedom from state control PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY DICKMAN Photograph: THE MIDNIGHT OIL The University of Central Florida saves money by keeping classrooms in use until 10 p.m. PHOTOGRAPH BY PRESTON MACK Photograph: Bronx Community College Photograph: University of Michigan PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES Photograph: University of Notre Dame PHOTOGRAPH WILLIAM STRODE/SUPERSTOCK Photograph: University of Phoenix Photograph: CRUNCHING NUMBERS Harvard President Lawrence Summers hired consultants McKinsey & Co. to find efficiencies 


Document bw00000020030424dz4s0002p


More Like This

 Article 285 *******************    



Technology Brief -- International Business Machines: Smallest Solid-State Emitter Of Light Created in Nanotube

174 words 
2 May 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B4 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

International Business Machines Corp., in a bid to prepare for ever-tinier electronic devices, said it created the world's smallest solid-state light emitter. The development is part of the Armonk, N.Y., computer company's research into a special kind of molecular device, known as a carbon nanotube, which IBM calls one of the leading candidates to replace silicon computer chips. Scientist are preparing for the day when chips can't be made any smaller. The fresh research on the light-emitting properties of nanotubes suggests they could be applicable to optoelectronics, the basis for the high-speed communications industry. Carbon nanotubes are tube-shaped molecules that are 50,000 times thinner than an average human hair. Phaedon Avouris, the IBM researcher in charge of the project, said any commericial application of the research is about a decade away. But, he added, "You have to work way ahead of time so you have alternatives available when silicon quits." 

Document j000000020030502dz520002u


More Like This

 Article 286 *******************    



DNA Tagging Is a Front-Runner In Verifying Goods' Authenticity 

By Dean A. Yuliano 
Dow Jones Newswires 
1,381 words 
7 May 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B6B 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- In the ports of Los Angeles, customs officials are on the lookout for containers of fake designer-name clothing on boats. Yet 3,000 miles away, knockoffs of the latest fashion Louis Vuitton bag are popping up for sale on the streets of New York's Chinatown. 

The difficulty of preventing counterfeiting is well-known to the people who produce and police brand-name apparel and accessories in the U.S. Counterfeiters are getting more sophisticated at replicating, smuggling and plying their wares, costing American businesses profits and jobs, depriving the government of import duties, and in some cases financing terrorism. 

Can DNA be the answer? 

Mostly known for its role in cloning, DNA has emerged as a front-running method of verifying the authenticity of a range of products. Earlier this month, the Commerce Department identified a DNA-marking technology sold by Applied DNA Sciences Inc. as one of three potential ways customs officials and textiles makers can battle illegal imports. 

DNA tagging is said to provide a high barrier to counterfeiting, because the DNA sequences used for identification are extremely difficult to unravel and replicate. 

That Applied DNA received the preliminary government stamp of approval is another milestone for the genetic science, which is vying against nanotechnology bar codes and fluorescent-ultraviolet scans for this young and potentially lucrative fraud-detection market. 

About $70 billion of textiles are imported legally to the U.S. annually, but the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, formerly known as the Customs Service, estimates that an additional $2 billion is smuggled into the country. The textile industry puts the estimate at as much as $8 billion to $10 billion, said Cass Johnson, senior vice president of international trade at the American Textile Manufacturers Institute. The stakes are big: About 45% of all duties collected come from textile and wearing-apparel shipments. 

The counterfeiters also take a toll on the value of copyrighted items, such as brand-name and designer label clothing. On that basis, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection inspectors in fiscal 2002 seized $9.3 million in wearing apparel at the nation's borders and ports. They seized a further $3 million of handbags, wallets and backpacks. Clothing is the No. 3 illegal import, after media like digital videodiscs and compact discs, and electronic devices, according to the latest Commerce Department data. 

"As the U.S. effort to interdict these goods has been reduced, the likelihood of people taking advantage of the ease to which you can bring these goods has increased," Mr. Johnson said. "We're discovering that because there is so little physical inspections, something needs to be done. One thing would be these new technologies that would allow Customs to identify whether goods are legitimate or not." 

For Applied DNA -- a start-up with no revenue, earnings and negative cash flow -- selection by the government is a big step. The Los Angeles concern has a license to co-develop and market in North America and Europe a range of DNA-based inks and embedded semiconductor-chip products, the core technology of which is owned by closely held Biowell Technology Inc. of Taiwan. 

Here's how the Applied DNA Marker for textiles and a host of other products work. Applied DNA takes strands of nonhuman genetic codes, mainly from plants, and puts them into a liquid form that can be blended into the fabric during production or topically applied afterward. At any point in the supply chain, a hand-held scanner can identify the marked clothing. A more-sophisticated, briefcase-sized scanner can read the DNA and identify the legal country of origin as well as the specific authorized factories where a garment and/or its components were produced or processed. 

Applied DNA would sell to the government and apparel makers the colorless DNA-saturated marking liquid and scanners to read the DNA combination. Product pricing would vary depending on individual client needs, application requirements, and quantities of marker products required. 

DNA is easily damaged by exposure to various environmental conditions, but Applied DNA Chief Executive Larry Lee said Biowell has found a way to preserve its gene sequences for 100 years. 

"There are close to a dozen companies competing for this process," Mr. Lee said. "The problem with other companies is their ability to keep the DNA stable." Applied DNA's rivals, he said, can do so for only about three or four months. 

The new Applied DNA Marker technology for textiles will be available in the fourth quarter of this year. But the company and already established competitors, like CrossOff Inc.'s DNA Technologies Inc. of Canada, still have to overcome some negative perceptions toward their science. 

Recently, New York's fashion industry was stunned by shoppers lining up on Canal Street to buy authentic-looking imitation Louis Vuitton Takashi Murakami bags. The handbags hit authorized store shelves only in March. Yet, the French luxury-goods maker, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, is no fan of a DNA-based solution. 

"As far as Louis Vuitton is concerned, we could say that DNA markers could not be an appropriate response to the counterfeiting issue," Claus-Dietrich Lahrs, president of Louis Vuitton North America, said in a written statement. "The main purpose of DNA markers is to facilitate the distinction between genuine and fake items, which is not of a concern for [Louis Vuitton] considering the obvious bad quality of counterfeits. 

"Last and not least, DNA markers are usually very costly and are not free from counterfeiting," he added. 

To be sure, cracking DNA codes isn't impossible. But it requires a level of scientific prowess that might be beyond the average capabilities of counterfeiting operations. That difficulty was one of several parameters that led Dr. Glenn Allgood, principal investigator at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, to select DNA marking as a potential solution. Another concern: cost. 

"Cost was a major factor," Dr. Allgood said. "The ultimate [government] use will be in customs: To facilitate inspection, confirm that what they have is really what they have." 

Earlier this year, the Los Angeles Business Journal reported that the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection is investigating the smuggling of more than 5,000 containers of apparel valued at as much as $500 million during the past three years through the West Coast city's port. The cargo has avoided $60 million in duty fees during that time. 

As one of the three technologies selected by the Commerce Department, Applied DNA Sciences soon will begin a prototype test with one or more U.S. textile firms. The Bush administration has said it wants new technology to trace illegal textile imports in place by 2004. 

Applied DNA's technology still faces stiff competition. 

Mr. Allgood said government scientists looked at 10 technologies altogether: four from private firms and six others invented at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee. He declined to identify the company that is proposing the fluorescent-ultraviolet marking method. Oak Ridge's own team of scientists devised the third technology, a combination of fluorescent-ultraviolet markers and nano bar codes. 

Mr. Lee of Applied DNA said he's confident the company will book revenue in 2003, and is targeting break-even results next year. Even if DNA Marker doesn't become the chosen tool for the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, the high-profile publicity offered by its selection by the government is a strong selling point to private industry, at all points in the very lengthy supply chain. 

It's believed the textiles sector doesn't want to spend more than a penny per pound of cotton on anticounterfeiting measures, which would work out to about $82 million based on U.S. Department of Agriculture projections that 8.2 billion pounds of cotton will be produced in the U.S. in fiscal 2003. Mr. Lee said the DNA Marker more than meets that price criterion. 

"Whatever it is, it's really got to be something that's not too costly because you don't want to raise the price of a garment too much," said Mr. Johnson of the Washington-based American Textile Manufacturers Institute. 

Document j000000020030507dz5700037


More Like This

 Article 287 *******************    



Up Front: HIGH TECH 

A NANO NAIL IN SILICON'S COFFIN? 

By Otis Port Edited by Ira Sager 
211 words 
12 May 2003
BusinessWeek 
10 
Number 3832 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

A dream just came true for the chip industry. For decades, engineers have tried to coax ordinary silicon to emit light. Then silicon could be used not only for computer chips but also for optical devices such as microlasers, which require expensive materials to build. That would be an enormous boon. In telecom, for example, it would end the need for different chip technologies to handle many chores, cutting costs and streamlining design. 

Now IBM has found this long-sought universal material. But it isn't silicon. In the May 2 issue of Science, IBM researchers report it's the carbon nanotube -- a wee whisker of carbon about 100,000 times thinner than a human hair. 

Nanotubes have long been viewed as the likeliest successor to silicon technology when it runs out of steam around 2015. That's because nanotubes can function as a conducting wire or as a semiconductor. Adding photonic capabilities ``closes the circle,'' says Phaedon Avouris, an IBM researcher. ``Now, everything can be done with nanotubes.'' 

This breakthrough could make nanotubes so alluring that their commercial debut may advance, perhaps to the end of this decade. 

Photograph: CHIP: New glow 


Document bw00000020030508dz5c0000s


More Like This

 Article 288 *******************    



Technology Journal 
Digits 

Digits 

934 words 
15 May 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B4 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[Gambits & Gadgets in the World of Technology] 

Keeping Tabs 

Derek Williams is so used to the questions about severe acute respiratory syndrome that he heads them off actively. The Oracle Corp. executive vice president begins every conversation he has these days with the following statement: "I've not been in a SARS-infected country since April 17." 

Mr. Williams is in charge of the database software firm's Asia-Pacific division and is based in Singapore. These days, he totes along a hand-drawn spreadsheet listing each Asian nation, the number of cases of SARS to date, the last date a new case was identified, and the number of deaths. The statistics are pulled from the World Health Organization Web site. He displayed the blue-ink sheet at a recent meeting in San Francisco. 

Mr. Williams, who mentions that he is healthy and shows no symptoms of SARS, says the impact of the epidemic on business and his Redwood Shores, Calif., concern's operations has been minimal so far. Nevertheless, the company is taking precautions. Oracle has broken its Asian work force in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong into smaller work groups, which work at different times and different locations. That way, if anyone comes down with symptoms, a smaller population would be exposed and could be isolated, he says. When a worker returns from a SARS-infected country, Oracle asks the employee to work from home for seven to 10 days as part of a quarantine period. 

Duking It Out 

For months now, PC king Dell Computer Corp. has been targeting Sun Microsystems Inc.'s customers as it branches into big server and storage products. Its latest marketing pitch includes a Web-based calculator to help consumers determine potential savings. In ads, the Round Rock, Texas, firm calls its servers "faster and less expensive" than what it describes as Sun's "proprietary" gear. 

Now, Sun is moving the war of words to the Internet. The Palo Alto, Calif., Unix champion has set up a Web page that it calls a "reality check" to dispute Dell's claims. Among other things, Sun's page (www.sun.com/executives/realitycheck) takes Dell to task for making performance and savings claims that it says are "attempting to mislead." 

"We know they're trying to come after us on the enterprise side," says Souheil Saliba, a Sun marketing vice president who ordered up the Web response. "We're taking that threat seriously and are responding to it." In addition to the Web page, Sun salespeople now are trained to pick apart Dell's price claims, he says. 

A Dell spokesman retorts its in-house tests are fair and "accurately represent a typical customer scenario." 

Post-Post-Boom 

Once upon a time, there was a magazine called Wired that celebrated the digital revolution "whipping through our lives like a Bengali typhoon," as it said in its first issue. A decade later, Wired still exists (now as part of Conde Nast, a unit of Advance Publications Inc.) and the digital revolution remains unfinished, but the era the magazine chronicled already seems like, well, history. 

Or, as writer Gary Wolf puts its, like a romantic fling with a bad ending. "You wake up and say, `What happened?' " Mr. Wolf says. The main character of his new book, "Wired: A Romance" (Random House, July 2003), is Louis Rossetto, co-founder of the magazine. Mr. Rossetto started as a hard-headed realist compared with the Internet visionaries and ended as a wild-eyed idealist compared with the investment bankers. 

Mr. Wolf thinks it's time to separate the real changes wrought by the digital revolution from the financial mania it sparked. "People will look back on the era of optimism between the two [Persian] Gulf wars and say, `That was kind of great.' It came to a crashing end, but once people get over that, they will say, `An amazing thing happened.' " 

Starting Small 

Despite the hype, most tech observers agree it will be years before nanotechnology -- the direct manipulation of molecules and atoms to create new products -- really takes off. 

Nevertheless, it is never too early to get ready. Or so say attorneys at Pillsbury Winthrop LLP. The firm is starting at the nano level -- SMALL -- and spiriting about 20 of its 800 or so lawyers onto a nanotech team mostly in New York and San Francisco. 

Besides patent, trademark and corporate issues, lawyers plan to explore ethical issues facing the new industry. Those questions will be interesting, says partner Tom Thomas, co-chairman of the firm's new nanotechnology practice. As the industry creates products and technologies that didn't exist before, so, too, will it face new questions, he says. For instance, when making nano-products, "What kind of protections do you need to put in place for workers, given that the technology is so small" and can slip through filters, both man-made and human? 

Pillsbury isn't the only firm jumping on the nano bandwagon. Other national firms, including Foley & Lardner LLP and Oppenheimer Wolff & Donnelly LLP, have started nanotechnology practices, too. 

For those who think the future is far away, Mr. Thomas points out that many corporations already use nanotechnology, which he calls "an enabling technology." On his list: L'Oreal SA, the French cosmetics firm now putting zinc into face creams. "It's not what you think of as nanotechnology," he says of the small particles that are absorbed into the skin. 

--- 

Digits was compiled by Ann Grimes with contributions from Mylene Mangalindan, Gary McWilliams and David Bank. 

Document j000000020030515dz5f0003v


More Like This

 Article 289 *******************    



WEEKEND JOURNAL 

Review / Books: The Revolution Has Begun 

By Ron Bailey 
949 words 
23 May 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
W14 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NANOCOSM 

By William Illsey Atkinson 

(Amacom, 306 pages, $24.95) 

THE NEXT BIG THING IS REALLY SMALL 

By Jack Uldrich, with Deb Newberry 

(Crown Business, 207 pages, $28.95) 

PRINCE CHARLES is leery of it. Activists want to ban it. Michael Crichton has written a scary bestseller about it. And financial analysts predict that it will be a trillion-dollar global business in a few years. 

It also has a strange name. 

Nanotechnology is the science of the very small. How small? A nanometer is one billionth of a meter. Ten hydrogen atoms lined up in a row would fit within a single one. The width of the dot above this letter "i" ranges across about a million nanometers. In the world of the nanocosm, the tiny etchings on our densest microchips are vast highways. 

And nanotechnology is coming on fast. "For the first time in history, a technical revolution will approach the abruptness of a political event," writes William Atkinson. "No one in any age has heard, seen, or felt anything like it. But you will." He adds: "A.D. 2003 will seem antediluvian not in 50 years but in 15." 

Such claims may seem far-fetched, but they may be right. And obviously such a revolution, if it comes about, will have major effects on business. Already places like Northwestern and Stanford universities are offering minicourses on nanotechnology for business executives. 

If you can't spare the time for such a course -- and who can? -- Mr. Atkinson's "Nanocosm" is a good substitute, an irreverent, comprehensive romp, by an experienced science popularizer, through the many fascinating details of the nano-world -- including portraits of the colorful figures who helped to "discover" it. "The Next Big Thing Is Really Small," by Jack Uldrich (with Deb Newberry), is another helpful book, a breathless but nevertheless handy nano-primer that sketches the many ways in which nanotechnology will change how we live and work. 

It should be said that nanotechnology is not one thing; it is more a conceptual breakthrough than a specific kind of machinery or design. Basically, it arises from the insight that it is now possible to manufacture objects by placing individual atoms and molecules in precise locations, making their interaction more reliable, predictable and fast. Nanotechnology has already invaded a good deal of business and industry -- from telecommunications and computers to industrial materials and pharmaceuticals. The great appeal, in each case, is smaller, more efficient products. 

Consider carbon nanotubes, filaments of pure carbon less than one ten-thousandth the width of a human hair. The chemical bonds formed by carbon nanotubes make them "the strongest material known," according to a recent study in Physical Review Letters B, a leading scientific journal. They have 100 times the strength of steel but only have only one-sixth the weight. 

And they are incredibly useful. Already researchers are drawing on carbon nanotubes to make electronic circuits that are one-thousandth the size of our current microchips. It is conceivable that, one day, we may store the entire contents of the Library of Congress in a computer memory the size of a 1-inch cube. Carbon nanotubes are likely to make electronic displays incredibly cheap, too, leading to easily programmable books, magazines and newspapers. 

Nanotechnology is not just pie-in-the-sky. Nano-products already exist. Right now most commercial applications involve nanocoatings and catalysts. For example, the window manufacturers Pilkington and PPG Industries offer self-cleaning windows coated with nanoparticles that catalyze dirt and cause rainwater to sheet down rather than bead up (and so wash away dirt). Lee Jeans and Eddie Bauer are offering spill-resistant pants using "nano-whisker" fabric technology developed by NanoTex. Popular sunscreens use nanosize particles of zinc oxide to block damaging ultraviolet rays. And pharmaceutical companies are already devising new nanosize systems that deliver precise doses of drugs to specific tissues. Such systems will reduce side effects while boosting a drug's efficacy. 

Both books foresee various nanotechnologies enabling all sorts of things: laboratory-like, medical diagnostic capacity on a 1-inch computer chip; hyper-refined computers, even computers built into clothing for self-repair; powerful batteries lasting longer than anything we can now imagine; and medical monitoring systems embedded in human bodies and ready to sound an alert when a disease organism strikes or a cancer cell develops. In the meantime, nanomanufacturing, applied to a thousand different goods, will use less energy and produce less waste. 

With so many benefits, why is Prince Charles so worried, along with various other nano-skeptics? Evidently because they give credence to some version of Michael Crichton's dystopic vision in his novel "Prey," in which rogue nanomachines -- self-replicating in the manner of a bacterial colony -- escape the laboratory, attack people and consume the biosphere, the so-called gray-goo problem. 

Not to worry. Even if such nanomachines can be built -- and Richard Smalley of Rice University, a Nobel Prize-winning nanoscientist, doubts they can be -- they are a long, long way in the future. Researchers are already thinking of ways to manage them -- for example with centralized sources for fuel, or computer codes, that are controlled solely by people. In any case, none of the amazing near-term benefits of nanotechnology require such machines. 

No, there is every reason for celebration. Echoing the authors of these books, Mike Roco, a senior adviser at the National Science Foundation, declares: "Because of nanotechnology we will see more change in our civilization in the next 30 years than we did during all of the 20th century." Small wonder. 

--- 

Mr. Bailey is Reason magazine's science correspondent. 

Document j000000020030523dz5n0003d


More Like This

 Article 290 *******************    



Short Interest Highlights 

1,889 words 
28 May 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
C14 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NASDAQ 


                Largest Short Positions



Rank                   May 15       Apr. 15     Change
 1  Cisco Systems     109,150,760   97,406,454   11,744,306
 2  Microsoft Corp    102,565,047  107,721,079   -5,156,032
 3  Intel Corp         77,573,492   67,834,842    9,738,650
 4  Nextel Communicat  75,295,037   74,828,004      467,033
 5  Dell Computer      53,601,618   51,791,862    1,809,756
 6  Comcast Corp A     51,466,969   57,706,761   -6,239,792
 7  Amazon.com Inc     51,436,610   48,927,822    2,508,788
 8  Juniper Networks   48,386,500   45,542,292    2,844,208
 9  USA Interactive    46,536,852   37,228,456    9,308,396
10  Oracle Corp        43,823,024   44,542,360     -719,336
11  Applied Materials  42,773,820   48,128,549   -5,354,729
12  Level 3 Communicat 36,221,173   42,876,096   -6,654,923
13  XM Satellite Radio 35,062,480   32,896,538    2,165,942
14  Charter Comm A     34,853,777   39,273,903   -4,420,126
15  Yahoo! Inc         33,955,345   36,234,489   -2,279,144
16  Network Appliance  29,315,532   29,193,063      122,469
17  Comcast Corp A Spl 27,337,224   28,177,608     -840,384
18  Amgen Inc          24,946,714   27,215,572   -2,268,858
19  Sun Microsystems2  4,837,3422    3,367,249    1,470,093
20  KLA-Tencor Corp    24,410,816   25,773,070   -1,362,254
21  Andrew Corp        24,000,645   18,857,879    5,142,766
22  Cree Inc           23,778,757   22,966,930      811,827
23  Skyworks Solutions 22,772,013   25,753,673   -2,981,660
24  Qualcomm Inc       22,557,643   21,949,875      607,768
25  Veritas Software   21,827,547   25,845,120   -4,017,573
26  BEA Systems        21,735,495   20,811,232      924,263
27  eBay Inc           19,984,157   20,957,608     -973,451
28  Ciena Corp         19,580,147   24,484,789   -4,904,642
29  PeopleSoft Inc     19,431,681   22,662,805   -3,231,124
30  Apple Computer Inc 18,562,504   13,105,510    5,456,994
                    Largest Changes
Rank                    May 15     Apr. 15       Change
                          NYSE
  INCREASES (in shares)
 1  Cisco Systems     109,150,760   97,406,454   11,744,306
 2  Intel Corp         77,573,492   67,834,842    9,738,650
 3  USA Interactive4   6,536,8523    7,228,456    9,308,396
 4  PMC-Sierra Inc     17,010,993   10,560,308    6,450,685
 5  Apple Computer Inc 18,562,504   13,105,510    5,456,994
 6  Andrew Corp        24,000,645   18,857,879    5,142,766
 7  Symantec Corp      16,087,257   12,053,106    4,034,151
 8  Earthlink Inc      12,881,065    8,867,873    4,013,192
 9  Boston Communicat   6,720,003    2,778,165    3,941,838
10  Mercury Interactiv 14,202,163   11,208,262    2,993,901
11  Juniper Networks   48,386,500   45,542,292    2,844,208
12  Amazon.com Inc     51,436,610   48,927,822    2,508,788
13  McLeodUSA A        10,165,903    7,804,738    2,361,165
14  GenVec Inc          2,645,848      321,796    2,324,052
15  Priceline.com Inc   8,143,996    5,864,608    2,279,388
16  Biogen Inc          8,922,594    6,712,952    2,209,642
17  XM Satellite Radio 35,062,480   32,896,538    2,165,942
18  ICOS Corp           7,454,942    5,404,281    2,050,661
19  Pixelworks Inc      7,338,723    5,308,507    2,030,216
20  Conceptus Inc      11,181,680    9,209,730    1,971,950
  DECREASES (in shares)
 1  RF Micro Devices   13,801,707   20,657,892   -6,856,185
 2  Level 3 Communicat 36,221,173   42,876,096   -6,654,923
 3  Arris Group         4,321,313   10,635,660   -6,314,347
 4  Comcast Corp A     51,466,969   57,706,761   -6,239,792
 5  Applied Materials  42,773,820   48,128,549   -5,354,729
 6  Microsoft Corp    102,565,047  107,721,079   -5,156,032
 7  Cognizant Technol   5,905,546   10,990,288   -5,084,742
 8  Ciena Corp         19,580,147   24,484,789   -4,904,642
 9  Charter Comm A     34,853,777   39,273,903   -4,420,126
10  Veritas Software   21,827,547   25,845,120   -4,017,573
11  Starbucks Corp     13,330,452   16,935,177   -3,604,725
12  PeopleSoft Inc     19,431,681   22,662,805   -3,231,124
13  VeriSign Inc        9,769,618   12,965,200   -3,195,582
14  Skyworks Solutions 22,772,013   25,753,673   -2,981,660
15  Allos Therapeutics  1,312,918    4,234,997   -2,922,079
16  Siebel Systems Inc 11,627,205   14,239,439   -2,612,234
17  Legato Systems      8,162,359   10,603,316   -2,440,957
18  Yahoo! Inc         33,955,345   36,234,489   -2,279,144
19  Amgen Inc          24,946,714   27,215,572   -2,268,858
20  Finisar Corp        9,702,402   11,938,309   -2,235,907
21  Expedia             7,563,598    9,638,172   -2,074,574
22  WebMethods Inc      6,340,305    8,396,640   -2,056,335
23  Altera Corp        16,954,507   18,933,490   -1,978,983
24  Costco Wholesale   13,520,007   15,310,654   -1,790,647
25  LendingTree Inc     3,143,859    4,932,857   -1,788,998
               Largest Short Interest Ratios
  The short interest ratio is the number of days it would take to cover
the short interest if trading continued at the average daily volume for
the month.
                        May 15      Avg Dly    Days to
                       Short Int     Vol-a     Cover
 1  Creo Inc           1,184,592     13,686       87
 2  Sports Resorts     1,509,276     26,723       56
 3  Zi Corp            1,472,247     28,122       52
 4  Zix Corp           6,621,234    134,119       49
 5  Trans Wld Entertn  2,951,534     63,954       46
 6  Amer Business Fin    362,930      8,347       43
 7  1-800 Contacts     1,622,337     42,203       38
 8  ParkerVision Inc   1,505,368     39,162       38
 9  Neoforma Inc       2,307,385     62,625       37
10  Research Frontiers 2,006,286     57,891       35
11  ZymoGenetics Inc   1,990,143     63,512       31
12  Neose Technolog    1,844,394     59,633       31
13  Crown Media Hldgs  1,236,617     42,933       29
14  Northfield Labs    1,530,234     52,852       29
15  School Specialty   5,273,373    181,459       29
16  Polymedica Corp    4,507,824    160,955       28
17  Aware Inc          1,886,193     67,014       28
18  Cerus Corp         2,679,115     96,289       28
19  Conceptus Inc     11,181,680    417,507       27
20  Abiomed Inc        2,402,604     94,205       26
  Issues that split in the latest month are excluded. The largest
percentage increase and decrease sections are limited to issues with
previously established short positions in both months.
                  Largest % Increases
 Rank                     May 15     Apr. 15         %
 1  ATP Oil & Gas          139,922       720      19,333.6
 2  Axeda Systems          115,857     1,851       6,159.2
 3  Verso Technolog      1,463,377    24,982       5,757.7
 4  Diacrin Inc             85,630     2,711       3,058.6
 5  EmmComm pfA            208,460     7,100       2,836.1
 6  Cytogen Corp           443,812    17,715       2,405.3
 7  Lionbridge Technol     186,444     8,374       2,126.5
 8  Internet Gold-Gold      92,103     5,410       1,602.5
 9  FAO Inc s              150,938     9,038       1,570.0
10  Neurobiolog Technol    156,055     9,876       1,480.1
11  Imax Corp            1,203,975    76,282       1,478.3
12  Cathay Bancorp         556,550    37,633       1,378.9
13  Insmed Inc             102,809    10,544         875.0
14  SmarTire Systems       655,686    70,295         832.8
15  Nanophase Technol      112,315    12,139         825.2
16  GeneLabs Technol       134,325    14,555         822.9
17  GenVec Inc           2,645,848   321,796         722.2
18  Pacific Internet       102,576    12,555         717.0
19  Concur Technol         479,039    64,649         641.0
20  WilTel Communic A      275,754    43,508         533.8
21  Grupo Fin Galacia    1,072,930   170,080         530.8
22  Evolving Systems       115,054    20,729         455.0
23  Matritech Inc          282,688    52,463         438.8
24  Staar Surgical         242,645    47,174         414.4
25  Genzyme Biosurgery   1,234,706   262,728         370.0
26  Planar Systems         422,613    96,280         338.9
27  FindWhat.com         1,815,689   433,934         318.4
28  Stratasys Inc          300,879    75,195         300.1
29  Rediff.com ADS         232,148    58,114         299.5
30  Spectrum Pharma        130,964    33,366         292.5
31  chinadotcom            469,047   122,273         283.6
32  Republic Bancp-MI      952,011   265,068         259.2
33  HealthTronics Surg     358,703   107,081         235.0
34  EVCI Career Collg      128,711    39,989         221.9
35  Sina Corp            2,845,286   902,588         215.2
                  Largest % Decreases
 Rank                        May 15    Apr. 15      %
 1  Source Interlink         2,488      84,642    -97.1
 2  SKF AB ADS               4,410     124,309    -96.5
 3  Cardima Inc             10,694     233,576    -95.4
 4  United Bus Med ADS      10,138     162,410    -93.8
 5  Rank Group PLC ADS       6,321     100,055    -93.7
 6  Galen Hldgs ADS         19,002     180,656    -89.5
 7  Hi/fn Inc               17,580     157,114    -88.8
 8  COLT Telecom Grp        90,570     584,436    -84.5
 9  Interchange Fin'l       19,564     104,253    -81.2
10  Carlton Comm ADS        19,714     100,867    -80.5
11  Central Coast Bncp      25,780     128,908    -80.0
12  SS&C Technologies       90,126     369,786    -75.6
13  Dade Behring Hldg      116,560     415,824    -72.0
14  Centennial Comm        219,210     764,139    -71.3
15  Calif Micro Devices     97,810     340,210    -71.3
16  CRH PLC ADS             48,391     165,064    -70.7
17  ATS Medical Inc         34,818     115,964    -70.0
18  Flamel Tech ADS         59,707     194,865    -69.4
19  Allos Therapeutics   1,312,918   4,234,997    -69.0
20  Big 5 Sporting Gds      43,488     140,009    -68.9
21  Eidos PLC               83,448     267,111    -68.8
22  Vasomedical Inc         84,704     260,166    -67.4
23  Introgen Therapeutics   46,977     140,229    -66.5
24  ActivCard Corp         169,447     437,993    -61.3
25  Nissan Motor ADS       394,440     988,092    -60.1
26  VerticalNet Inc         81,776     203,275    -59.8
27  Arris Group          4,321,313  10,635,660    -59.4
28  Micros Systems          84,953     208,590    -59.3
29  Genzyme Molecular      108,992     264,431    -58.8
30  SBA Communication      800,380   1,939,249    -58.7
31  MerLyn Mkt Recrvy       78,559     190,281    -58.7
32  Granite Broadcstg      188,753     437,148    -56.8
33  Richardson Electr      220,914     501,592    -56.0
34  Micro Linear Corp       85,614     193,614    -55.8
35  HealtheTech Inc        327,411     730,110    -55.2


Document j000000020030528dz5s0000x


More Like This

 Article 291 *******************    



Small-Stock Focus: Chip Makers Triquint, Vitesse, Cypress All Gain 

By Cynthia Schreiber 
Dow Jones Newswires 
877 words 
30 May 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
C8 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Chip makers helped lift small-capitalization stocks as the tech-laden Nasdaq Composite Index saw its biggest volume day so far this year. 

Semiconductor stocks, which have shot up in recent weeks, were the session's best performers, despite some concerns that the stocks are getting ahead of a potential economic recovery later in the year. 

Triquint Semiconductor jumped 9.5%, or 40 cents, to $4.59, while Vitesse Semiconductor advanced 6%, or 26 cents, to 4.95. Cypress Semiconductor, on the New York Stock Exchange, managed to gain 5%, or 54 cents, to 11.13, after earlier weakness on news the San Jose. Calif., tech company planned to offer $500 million in convertible notes. 

Traders said the most recent economic data showing an uptick in economic growth in the first quarter and a fall in jobless claims last week lend credence to the promise of a second-half recovery, with select small stocks, particularly technology names, among the main beneficiaries of a rebound. 

"People are looking very specifically at what sectors are going to participate the most," said John Gillette, senior trader at Lazard PLC. "The first guys to get new business are going to be smaller technology companies." 

The Russell 2000 Index of small stocks closed up 0.5%, or 2.16 points, to 432.64, while the Standard & Poor's SmallCap 600 Index gained 0.6%, or 1.18, to close at 211.50. The Nasdaq Composite Index of large-cap and small-cap stocks climbed 0.8%, or 11.71, to 1574.95. Volume on the Nasdaq was 2.21 billion shares. 

C-Cor.net surged 23%, or 84 cents, to 4.50, amid expectations that Adelphia Communications' recent budget approval will translate into a surge in business for the State College, Pa., cable-fiber maker. 

But Tech Data was an exception, slipping 6.3%, or 1.64, to 24.36 after the Clearwater, Fla., technology firm posted first-quarter earnings that missed Wall Street's target. Credit Suisse First Boston downgraded the stock to neutral from outperform, citing growing competition from the likes of large-cap Dell Computer. 

Communications stocks were strong on the trail of C-Cor.Net and turned in the session's second-best performance, with Finisar advancing 14%, or 20 cents, to 1.61, Harmonic rising 5.3%, or 23 cents, to 4.53, and Packeteer jumping 4.6%, or 74 cents, to 16.74. 

Gold stocks edged higher after Wednesday's slide and despite Merrill Lynch's downgrade of Meridian Gold to neutral from buy. Meridian rose 1%, or 11 cents, to 11.17, on the NYSE. 

Real-estate stocks moved lower on the heels of Tuesday's strong housing report. SL Green Realty dropped 2.7%, or 94 cents, to 33.69, while Prentiss Property slipped 3.2%, or 91 cents, to 27.95, and Mills Corp. fell 3.3%, or 1.09, to 32.12, all on the NYSE. 

Electric utility stocks also finished lower. Aquila, traded on the NYSE, fell 9.3%, or 29 cents, to 2.84, after UBS Warburg downgraded the stock to reduce from neutral, citing limited long-term prospects. 

Allos Therapeutics shot up 61%, or 1.42, to 3.73, after the Westminster, Col., drug company said it will file a new drug application to market its lead cancer-drug candidate. 

Take-Two Interactive Software slipped 6.6%, or 1.72, to 24.53. as the New York videogame maker said it sees sales below analysts' target. The company also said its president won't return after a medical leave that began in April. 

Nanogen surged 35%, or 71 cents, to 2.74, after the San Diego technology company secured another in a series of patents for technologies enabling the construction of micro, or nanoscale, devices. Agile Software soared 14%, or 1.15, to 9.25, after the San Jose technology company posted a first-quarter narrower loss than analysts expected, while revenue of $19.1 million beat Wall Street's target of $17.5 million. 

The two casino companies most dependent on Illinois for revenue sank for a second day on mounting concerns the state will raise gaming taxes. Argosy Gaming, on the NYSE, lost 8%, or 1.58, to 18.77, while Penn National Gaming fell 7.2%, or 1.44, to 18.50. 

QAD declined 9.4%, or 79 cents, to 7.63, on the NYSE, even though the Carpinteria, Calif., software company's first-quarter results met with the company's forecast. Profit-taking was cited as a possible factor, since the stock hit a 52-week high Tuesday. 

Errant trading helped send Pomeroy Computer Resources down as much as 37%, before the Hebron, Ky., technology company's stock recovered to finish up 4.4%, or 42 cents, at 9.86. Eight blocks of 500 shares were traded in error at $5.90 on the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, said a control-room operator at the exchange. 

West Marine gained 8%, or 1.20, to 16.36, after the Watsonville, Calif., boat dealer reported a 1.5% drop in May same-store sales, better than it had expected. 

Document j000000020030530dz5u00020


More Like This

 Article 292 *******************    



WEEKEND JOURNAL 

Taste -- de gustibus: Why Is The Future So Boring? 

By Nancy deWolf Smith 
834 words 
6 June 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
W18 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Take this quiz: Which of the following insights appears in a collection of essays on "The Shape of Things to Come" in the June issue of Wired magazine? 

"The dump is the lowest form of spatial organization. . . . But in an overorganized world -- a groaning decrepit universe of systems . . . the dump is free from constraints, from selection, from the tyranny of style." 

"Without the sheen of futurism, the communal cool of flexibility is making way for the anonymity of generic space." 

"The golf course's indifference to context continues to drive the pervasive colonization of any available space. . . . It grants people the power to center ever inward -- manifest destiny in reverse." 

"A simple way to characterize our times is to say that the two meanings of representation have now merged into one, around the key figure of the spokesperson." 

"In a city where anything seems architecturally possible, the ultimate erotic fantasy is that of everyday existence." 

"Knowing your neighbors is more important than knowing karate." 

Answer: Alas, they're all in Wired this month. To be fair to the magazine, if you solicit 30 essays on any topic, you're bound to get some stinkers from people who can't write or have nothing to say. It gets even more complicated when your guest editor for the issue is the enigmatic international architect Rem Koolhaas, whose own soaring prose, on post-9/11 New York, runs to phrases like this: "From now on, the most important city in the world is dominated by the tower from which first dangled an ape. What is the connection between zero tolerance and the cult of Ground Zero? In any case, the disaster resurrects Giuliani's depleted persona." 

Whoa. Try telling Mr. Koolhaas -- who looks like a cross between Goldmember and a megalomaniac from the Batman series and who may be particularly cranky these days due to a recent slump in commissions -- to tone down the blather of other contributors. 

What's really striking in all this, however, is how little any of these commentators have to say about the future. That's not counting one apparent crystal-ball failure already. It concerns the headline "Martha Stewart Is Editing Your Life," which seems a tad optimistic after her indictment and resignation as Omnimedia CEO. 

Even so, she may indeed sell lots of pottery in China someday, as she predicts in an interview for Wired's special section. And we shouldn't underestimate her fighting spirit, seen here when the interviewer suggests that her marketing plans may encounter global resistance to "the unhindered progress of American civilization." Says Martha: "They hate us. But mostly for our politics, not our lifestyle. They don't hate the way we cook, they hate the way we behave. So I can't take any responsibility for that." 

Why is it, though, that Wired asked nearly three-dozen experts to peer into the future and most of them couldn't see beyond trends that have already arrived, some of them way back in the last century? There's a global migration to cities; the birth rate is low in Europe and exploding in Africa; rich countries have more TVs than poor ones; China is the next big global market? Nothing fresh there to tickle the imagination. Nanotechnology? Robots? Mars travel? Six degrees of separation? Old. Old. Old. Old. 

Trend charts, like the one showing crowd sizes at anti-globalism rallies, signify nothing. For all they tell us about the world of tomorrow you might as well compare the rally numbers -- 500,000 is the highest -- with the number of people who watched this week's Miss Universe pageant: 12 million in the U.S. and an estimated 640 million world-wide. (Not that any predicting is impossible. Ladies: No matter how thin you are, if you wear high heels with a bikini bottom cut to the hip, your thighs will always look like ham hocks.) 

The fact is, the Wired authors are not the only inept futurologists. True visionaries are exceedingly rare. Partly it's a natural defect of the imagination, the same one that makes it impossible for anybody to imagine aliens without eyes and other humanoid attributes. Partly it's our inclination to live for tomorrow, not the next century. Think about it. When you visit a fortune teller, do you ask her when the world will end or whether you will meet a tall, dark stranger? 

Personally, I've seen into the future only once. It was in the 1970s during an interview in Washington for a job in a senator's press office. His aides asked what I saw as the biggest issue for the media in the coming years. And I said that in the future there will be far more media outlets than there are people with something interesting to say. 

I didn't get the job. But these days, I do feel vindicated. 

Document j000000020030606dz660003i


More Like This

 Article 293 *******************    


Features

How Big Blue Is Turning Geeks Into Gold ; Can consultants and scientists mix? CEO Sam Palmisano has discovered the formula works. 

Brent Schlender 
3,624 words 
9 June 2003
Fortune
132
English
Copyright (c) 2003 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

Andrew Tomkins, a British computer scientist, is pretty much your typical ivory-tower egghead. He's spent his entire adult life either in academia--he earned advanced degrees from MIT and Carnegie-Mellon--or at IBM's Almaden Research Center, an Elysian think tank that crowns a bucolic hilltop south of San Jose. There Tomkins, 34, has quietly built a reputation as one of the world's leading experts on what he and his peers call text analytics and data heuristics. To grossly oversimplify, that means he teaches computers to read for comprehension and to recognize patterns of meaning that show up in the text of documents. 

Three years ago his research grew into a project he called the Web Graph Structure, in which he programmed a supercomputer not merely to search but to continually "read" everything on the World Wide Web--literally billions of pages. Tomkins soon found he could spot trends in public opinion and popular culture as they emerged and watch them migrate around the world like wildfire. He realized that if you asked the Web Graph Structure the right kinds of questions, you could conduct virtual market research almost instantaneously. You could, for example, track the buzz following the release of a new Harry Potter movie the day after it opened by comparing the opinions of movie reviewers, reading news reports on box-office sales, and monitoring online chatrooms and gossip columnists. So impressed was Tomkins's boss, Almaden labs director Robert Morris, that he ponied up more funding and urged the young scientist to hook up with business consultants in IBM's Global Services group to explore turning his research into a service that the company could sell. 

That's how, for the first time in his career, Andrew Tomkins, Ph.D., came face to face with the real world. One of his first orders of business was to do some market research of his own. Throughout 2000, Tomkins made visits to some of IBM's most sophisticated customers--the company won't reveal the names of those he called on--to ask how they might be able to use his technology, which he had rechristened Web Fountain. Since then he's worked closely with Bob Carlson, an IBM Global Services consultant who signed on as general manager of the Web Fountain "emerging- business opportunity"--or EBO in Big Blue--speak. Later this year Web Fountain will go live for a handful of pilot customers. The whole experience left an indelible impression on the bookish Tomkins. "For me it was a real eye-opener, coming from the lifestyle of writing academic papers to learning about markets and what business is all about," says the researcher, who now holds the additional title of chief science officer for Web Fountain. "It was like going to a foreign land--there were aha! moments in both directions." 

Tomkins, Carlson, and the Web Fountain EBO are living proof of the big, new payoff IBM is getting from throwing open the doors of its vaunted research labs and turning its scientists loose in the marketplace. Another example is IBM Life Sciences, a three-year- old business division run by a former research chemist that will probably generate $1 billion in new revenue in the next 12 months (more on that later). No longer content to sit in windowless labs and think deep thoughts, hundreds of IBM's brightest researchers are now making regular visits to customers--in some cases to roll up their sleeves to help solve a particular problem and in other instances simply to better understand how enterprises actually use the information technology IBM invents. And some, like Tomkins, are even taking a stab at being entrepreneurs. 

It's all part of a new "customer facing" approach to R&D--an intriguing manifestation of Big Blue's big transformation into a business whose primary products are no longer computer hardware and software but IT services. That rather bland term covers everything from making house calls to repair balky mainframes, to designing and operating and outsourcing IT systems for corporate customers, to loaning out computer capacity and software "on demand," to reengineering the work flow and supply chains of entire corporations. 

It's big business and increasingly high tech. With services now accounting for nearly 45% of IBM's $81 billion in annual revenues, the company has had to rethink how the denizens of its ivory towers, many of whom have never even met an IBM customer other than maybe at a kid's soccer game, can remain relevant, much less central, to this new mission. CEO Sam Palmisano is betting that by turning IBM Research itself into a service business of sorts and getting his top thinkers out into the field, not only might they use their world-class smarts to help solve some knotty real-world problems and drum up new business, but they might also get a better sense of how to tailor their blue-sky research efforts to coincide with the future needs of the IT marketplace. Says Palmisano: "IBM Research has reinvented itself many times over the decades as technical challenges and customer problems have changed. A generation ago, most of our researchers grappled with challenges in physics, materials science, and magnetics because so much of our business depended on devices." But today, he notes, "many of the toughest, most fascinating problems are in services." 

The labs have gotten religion. Paul Horn, a ponytailed physicist who is director of IBM Research, puts it this way: "The goal of this research organization is to create the future of the IBM company, and if the company isn't growing, well, we're failing. But if we get our shit together in this space, to be honest with you, no one can touch us." 

Palmisano needs that "if" to be "when." Sales have been hard to come by for IBM of late, as they have for the entire, recession- racked IT industry. The company's annual revenues have declined for two years running, from $85.1 billion in 2000 to $81.2 billion last year, and profits have slid much more, from $8 billion to $3.6 billion. IBM's hardware business, a victim of the relentless march of commoditization, was hit hardest, shrinking by 10% a year since the turn of the century, while software sales have remained flat. 

IBM is counting on its Global Services business to mushroom to offset those declines. So far the company has redoubled its efforts in business consulting, the domain of McKinsey, Bain, and others, by acquiring PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting last October for $3.5 billion. But IBM can't buy growth forever. About the only way for a consulting business to grow internally is by increasing billing hours, that is, adding bodies--very scarce and expensive bodies. It's not a recipe for the kind of growth IT companies are accustomed to. 

Palmisano thinks there's a lot more to the service business than hourly consulting fees. IBM's consultants and other service professionals often sell customers not only their expertise but also lots of other technology in the form of hardware, software, and systems and software integration. "A lot of people don't understand that IBM's services business is focused on high-end, high-value business problem solving," he says. "Today's grand challenges are in business design transformation and process integration. They're in advanced supply-chain management, risk analysis, optimization strategies, and text analytics for knowledge discovery. And one of the most important areas of research is in automating the infrastructure. In other words, people should not think of 'services' as only a labor-intensive business." 

The trick is for IBM to provide its service professionals and consultants with unique technology and ideas. That's where the researchers come in. It's an intriguing plan, but not everyone is buying it. Wall Street analysts have yet to find a way to value the new combination, and IBM's chief rival--Microsoft--is moving in the opposite direction. Says Bill Gates, chairman and chief software architect: "If you rely on business controls to tie research to products, you run the risk of 'overmanaging' research and cutting off potential discovery," he says. "IBM Research has done great work over the years.... At Microsoft Research, we use a 'university' model rather than a 'corporate' model. We felt that the best way to expand the state of the art was to hire great researchers and give them the freedom to innovate with a minimum of bureaucracy." 

Palmisano is confident that the eggheads at IBM Research, with a little guidance from the right people in Global Services and some face time with smart customers, can turn out more than good science- journal articles. And, he says, IBM's scientists are on the same page. "They understand that the business problems we are trying to solve for customers is not elementary stuff--it's hard, hard, hard!" he says. "Technical leaders want to make an impact, which means seeing their work make a difference in the real world. Sure, they thrive on publishing and going to conferences. But they understand that there's no better way to do that than by working with real, live customers." 

To get a sense of what a radical change it is for researchers to start thinking as much about customers and services as they do about science, it helps to visit Yorktown Heights, N.Y. Nestled into a hillside outside this small town is the computer giant's flagship sandbox for resident geniuses, the Thomas J. Watson Research Center. Former CEO Louis Gerstner, in his recent memoir, called the work that goes on in the austere, curvilinear building the "soul of IBM." 

Inside, more than half of all of IBM's 3,000-plus research scientists tinker in solitude, pushing ever outward the boundaries of physics, materials science, computer design and software theory, nanotechnology, advanced mathematics, and many other rarefied disciplines. Their counterparts at seven other labs around the world include two Nobel Prize winners and a handful of others with a genuine shot at joining their ranks. (IBM can boast employing five to date.) Among the creations that have sprung from IBM Research since its founding in 1956 are the single transistor memory cell (a.k.a. the memory chip); the disk drive; the relational database; those intricately beguiling mathematical designs called fractals; and perhaps its most public success, Deep Blue, the supercomputer that in 1997 out-played Garry Kasparov, the world champion chess master. One of the company's elite IBM Fellows- -55 currently hold that distinction--recently even cobbled together a rudimentary computing circuit out of individual atoms. 

Those innovations and inventions have long translated into cutting-edge software and hardware for IBM--and have largely saved the ivory tower from getting cut itself. In the 1990s, IBM nearly imploded after profoundly misjudging the full business ramifications of the PC revolution it had helped to foment. To fix the company, Gerstner administered strong medicine, including firing nearly a quarter of its employees worldwide. Yet IBM Research was virtually untouched--indeed, its ranks of scientists actually swelled by 30% over the past decade, although its budget was pared slightly. And during the period, IBM's researchers continued to rack up more U.S. patents each year than any other company in the world. 

As a result, IBM can boast having the world's preeminent corporate research organization. But in an industry that some believe has, thanks to the commoditization of technology, matured into something more akin to the automobile industry, the question is, So what? Arranging atoms to spell the logo of IBM--a stunt its researchers pulled off in 1991--shows amazing scientific chops but does little to win new business for IBM Global Services. So lab directors Horn and Morris have worked hard to get the soul of the corporation acting much more like a heart: beating faster and pushing creations out where they're needed--such as at customer sites. "There are many forms of customer contact, from simply dropping by and giving a talk, to actually working on a customer problem, to starting up a new business," says Morris, the puckish Australian database expert who runs the Almaden lab. "When you don't know what to do next in science, you go out and observe. So it's quite a natural thing for a researcher to want to go out and see the problems that our customers are actually trying to solve." 

And one thing IBM is finding: Customers enjoy rubbing shoulders with the company's best and brightest. "In the normal course of business now, we have IBM Fellows and others in our design and brainstorming meetings pretty regularly. We're on a first-name basis," says David Dibble, executive vice president in charge of IT infrastructure at Charles Schwab. "Last week we sat around and talked about advanced mathematical modeling and data heuristics." 

It isn't just for kicks. Schwab collects loads of data on customers through its website, over the phone, and at its locations around the country. It offers literally thousands of financial products, and their performance is constantly measured and recorded. But figuring out what it all means, and what product is best for which person, is a monstrously difficult challenge--one that often can be better answered by IBM's mathematicians and data heuristics experts than by, say, a typical IT consultant. "The big question for us is, 'What can we do to turn masses of raw data about customers and financial products and market performance into useful information?'" Dibble says. "These guys get it." 

Dibble receives so much personal attention because Schwab is a big customer that pushes the envelope with its IT systems. Schwab is also helping underwrite IBM's research into "autonomic," or self- managing, computer systems, as well as into a new kind of database engine. Its purpose will be to sift through and find correlations in "unstructured data" residing in a plethora of other, specialized databases--digital agglomerations of text, numerical data, photographs, video archives, imaging data, and the like--as if they were all part of a single data pool. Schwab figures that if those projects pay off, they will help it cut the cost of its IT upkeep and create a better online environment for customers and employees. Says Dibble: "We track these advanced-technology projects from cradle to grave. Sometimes they bloom and sometimes they don't." 

The Schwab work still has a long way to go. A more advanced--and already successful--attempt to push researchers closer to customers is IBM Life Sciences, a full-blown business unit run by a former chemist. In just three years Life Sciences has grown into a thriving entity employing 1,000 people. IBM Research has assigned 35 scientists to the unit; many of its products have already leaped from the lab to the market. 

"Life Sciences was one of six industry areas that IBM had identified as being ripe for dramatic growth," explains Caroline Kovac, the chemist who is general manager of the unit. "The reason it was on the list was that some rowdy guys at IBM Research had become very vocal about the fact that computational biology was growing by leaps and bounds with the advent of the human genome project." 

Not only does Life Sciences provide sophisticated tools for medical and genetics researchers, but it also makes IT systems to help pharmaceutical companies speed up and manage drug development and testing. The unit is working with Mayo Clinic to try to revolutionize how patient records are stored electronically. One of Life Sciences' biggest successes is a specialized database called Design Link that enables drug companies to manage a wide variety of experimental data that previously had to be stored on as many as 13 separate, incompatible systems. To date, four big pharmaceutical makers have adopted Design Link. "The most difficult problem pharmaceutical companies meet is integrating genomic, chemical, and biological information to reach a 'go or no-go' decision," says Dominique Herve, who is in charge of IT systems for the French drugmaker Aventis, which was the first company to deploy the product. 

Design Link was the brainchild of Laura Haas, an IBM Distinguished Engineer from the Santa Teresa Development Laboratory just down the road from Almaden. Haas was looking for a way to build a single "front end" that could tap into a variety of databases holding different types of data. Initially she didn't have pharmaceutical companies in mind as customers. But Kovac spotted the technology and asked Haas to come aboard temporarily as the unit's chief technical officer. "Carol called me the mother of the group in the early days," Haas says. "We had a blast. It was just like working for a startup. In our case, there wasn't that much culture shock when we met with customers because pharmaceutical companies think about their problems in much the same way we do." Now Haas, who really prefers conducting research to managing the development of a full-blown product, is back at Santa Teresa working on another database project called Cleo, but she keeps close tabs on her old colleagues at Life Sciences. 

The potential customer for nanotechnologist Don Eigler probably isn't even born yet. He revels in inviting visitors to come into his cramped lab at Almaden to "push atoms around" on his scanning tunneling electron microscope. Eigler, an IBM Fellow, is the one who made the famous Big Blue logo out of atoms, and more recently he constructed functioning logic circuits from groups of atoms. "The work in my lab has the furthest horizon of anything in the building, but we still feel it fits our business model," he says. 

A self-proclaimed surfer dude (he has the ponytail and the tan to prove it) as well as a world-renowned physicist, Eigler is a big believer in meeting with customers even though his work "may not have an up-front connection. It's important to show customers that computing technology has a lot of life left; that we haven't even begun to reach the limits." More important, he also believes the new atmosphere is making everybody at IBM Research better scientists in the purest sense of the word. "It has many of us thinking, How do I teach myself new tricks? How do I broaden myself a little? Some would say that's ludicrous because we're already sitting on top of the future. But, hey, when you get down to it, learning new tricks is what doing research is all about." 

There's a much grander ambition, too, behind IBM's strategy of linking research with its burgeoning service business. To hear the top executives talk, they think they're trying to uncover the Rosetta stone for the next round of growth in IT. 

"We're discovering the 'physics' of business," says Irving Wladawsky-Berger, a 15-year veteran of IBM Research who runs the company's On Demand business, a new unit in the services group that will sell access to IT capacity when customers need it, much as an electric utility provides power. "It's sort of like trying to unravel the business genome. We're asking our researchers-- mathematicians, computer scientists and systems experts, and even anthropologists and sociologists--to look at business processes and decision-making in a much more systematic and serious way. Classic computer scientists don't do this." 

The ultimate goal is to give customers the IT tools to go beyond merely automating the processing of transactions and other rote operations in an enterprise, and to genuinely transform how they analyze the marketplace, deploy resources, and make strategic decisions. An example of that is Tomkins's Web Fountain. It soon may provide a much more accurate gauge of the mood and nuance of the marketplace than a typical focus group or market research study. That, in turn, will help customers' businesses run better, make IBM's numbers healthier, and provide its researchers with at least one thing to brag about that the rest of the world might understand. 

FEEDBACK bschlender@fortunemail.com 

SERVICE MEETS SCIENCE 

Global Services is IBM's growth engine; the research labs its 

soul. Now the two must work together. 

Six landmarks from the labs 

The Magnetic Hard Disk (1956) 

The One-Device Memory Cell (late 1960's), formed the basis for 

all semiconductor memory chips. 

The Relational Database (1970), enabled easy access to enormous 

archives of data. 

The Scanning Tunneling Microscope (1981), gave humans their first 

atom's-eye view of the world. Recently IBM researchers used the 

microscopes to build data-processing devices out of individual 

atoms. 

High-Temperature Superconductivity (1987), enabled special 

materials to conduct electricity without resistance. 

Scalable Parallel Computing (1993), allowed computers to grow in 

power simply by adding more microprocessors. It is the basis of 

today's supercomputers. 

Quote: Researchers are finding that solving business problems "is not elementary," says Palmisano. Consulting firms typically hire to gain growth. IBM thinks it can devise a new way. 

Caption: COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS BROENING Scientist Tomkins (left) and consultant Carlson with Web Fountain COLOR PHOTO: THOMAS BROENING Nanotechnologist Eigler makes it a point to bring customers to his lab. COLOR CHART: FORTUNE CHART/SOURCE: IBM COLOR PHOTO: SUZANNE OPTON Research chief Horn tells his group it's inventing the "future of IBM." COLOR PHOTO: SUZANNE OPTON Haas (left) and Kovac created a soon to be $1 billion business unit. 


Document FORTU00020030528dz690000o


More Like This

 Article 294 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

FOR G.I. JOE, SMART UNIFORMS VIA NANOTECH

Edited By Adam Aston By Otis Port 
242 words 
9 June 2003
BusinessWeek 
125 
Number 3836 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

After iraq, there's no doubt about the overwhelming U.S. lead in military technology. Yet soldiers on the ground remain vulnerable, despite their armored vests and biowarfare suits. In fact, the Army brass worries that the weight of the recent equipment, which increases the load that soldiers carry into battle to at least 60 pounds, may hamper fighting efficiency. 

To give tomorrow's G.I. Joes a more decisive edge -- and cut their fighting weight -- the Army aims to develop a ``smart,'' almost impregnable uniform. That's the chief goal of Massachusetts Institute of Technology's new Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies. ISN, which opened on May 22, has five-year funding of $100 million. Half is from the U.S. Army, and the rest from MIT's and ISN's industrial partners -- among them Raytheon, DuPont, and Dow Corning. 

Nanotech will be the key to a super-uniform of the future, says ISN head Edwin L. Thomas, an MIT materials scientist. It underlies the sci-fi- like features targeted by some of the projects already under way. These include: a reactive coating for fabrics that would quickly turn regular uniforms into suits that thwart a range of biochemical attacks; feather-weight, superstrong body armor; and fabric fibers that could sense a wound and automatically constrict to apply a tourniquet to an injured limb. 

Document bw00000020030605dz6900008


More Like This

 Article 295 *******************    



Developments to Watch 

FOR G.I. JOE, SMART UNIFORMS VIA NANOTECH

Edited By Adam Aston By Otis Port 
242 words 
9 June 2003
BusinessWeek 
125 
Number 3836 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

After iraq, there's no doubt about the overwhelming U.S. lead in military technology. Yet soldiers on the ground remain vulnerable, despite their armored vests and biowarfare suits. In fact, the Army brass worries that the weight of the recent equipment, which increases the load that soldiers carry into battle to at least 60 pounds, may hamper fighting efficiency. 

To give tomorrow's G.I. Joes a more decisive edge -- and cut their fighting weight -- the Army aims to develop a ``smart,'' almost impregnable uniform. That's the chief goal of Massachusetts Institute of Technology's new Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies. ISN, which opened on May 22, has five-year funding of $100 million. Half is from the U.S. Army, and the rest from MIT's and ISN's industrial partners -- among them Raytheon, DuPont, and Dow Corning. 

Nanotech will be the key to a super-uniform of the future, says ISN head Edwin L. Thomas, an MIT materials scientist. It underlies the sci-fi- like features targeted by some of the projects already under way. These include: a reactive coating for fabrics that would quickly turn regular uniforms into suits that thwart a range of biochemical attacks; feather-weight, superstrong body armor; and fabric fibers that could sense a wound and automatically constrict to apply a tourniquet to an injured limb. 

Document bw00000020030609dz6900008


More Like This

 Article 296 *******************    



Technology Journal 

Nanofiber Advance Reported 

By Antonio Regalado 
347 words 
12 June 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B4 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Researchers from the University of Texas at Dallas have woven carbon nanotubes into threads tougher than any natural or synthetic fibers known. 

The nanotechnology advance, reported today in the journal Nature, could lead to improved body armor as well as applications in electronics. 

Lead researcher Ray Baughman, director of the university's nanotechnology research center, said it takes 17 times more energy to break the fibers than Kevlar, a material commonly used in bulletproof vests. 

Single-walled carbon nanotubes are microscopic straws of pure carbon, first recognized as an important new material by researchers in the early 1990s. The tubes are just one millionth of a meter in length each. 

A single tube is believed to be about 10 times stronger than steel wire, but researchers have found it challenging to exploit such properties on larger scales. Dr. Baughman's team managed to spin fibers as long as 200 meters (660 feet) by combining the nanotubes with plastic. 

Toughness is a measure of the energy needed to break a fiber. For its weight, spider silk is about five times as tough as steel, Dr. Baughman said, and his new fibers are four times better than that. It's still not entirely clear why the fibers are so tough. 

The Texas advance builds on research in France, where a team led by Phillipe Poulin at the National Center of Scientific Research in Bordeaux first reported making nanotube fibers in 2000. Dr. Poulin called the new result "very spectacular." 

Several start-up companies now seek to exploit university advances in nanotechnology. Dr. Poulin spends much of his time at Nanoledge, a company formed to make fibers and which sells them, mostly to other companies interested in conducting research. The fibers may find use as electronic shielding or in advanced energy supplies. 

Dr. Baugham said the University of Texas was involved in talks to commercialize the new method, which so far is prohibitively expensive for commercial applications. The lab has a pre-existing relationship with nanotechnology firm Zyvex Corp. of Richardson, Texas. 

Document j000000020030612dz6c00013


More Like This

 Article 297 *******************    


Features/Industrial Management & Technology/Hot Technologies

Closing In On Perfection ; Ultraprecision machine tools are putting manufacturers within nanometers of absolute accuracy. 

Gene Bylinsky 
2,316 words 
23 June 2003
Fortune
112[F] [Not Available In All Editions]
English
Copyright (c) 2003 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

A new chapter is being written in the history of light manipulation. Lenses that return sight to the blind. Smaller ones, the size of a lentil, that make DVD and CD players possible. High- tech lights in cars and homes that can outlast old-fashioned bulbs by decades. What those products have in common is that they, or their enabling components, are made by ultraprecision machine tools. These supermachines stand at the apex of manufacturing, the Rolls-Royces of machine tools. Capable of accuracy on almost an atomic level, they're as close to perfection as manufacturing gets. 

For now, about 90% of the products these machines fashion are optical--sophisticated lenses and mirrors that are used in everything from iris scanners and ear thermometers to laser printers and digital cameras. But an increasing number of mechanical components--fuel-injection systems, for example--also require high-precision manufacturing. And the possibilities for new applications are multiplying. Says Herman E. Reedy, executive vice president of II-VI, a $130-million-a-year world leader in laser optics: "Ultraprecision machining allows us to make products today that we could only dream about a few years ago." 

That's creating a boom in this small segment of the machine-tool market. The niche, with annual worldwide sales of only about $100 million, is one of the few growing areas in an otherwise shrinking industry. Just two U.S. companies make these machines, and their factories are running at full tilt; European and Japanese firms also compete. The largest U.S. company, Precitech of Keene, N.H., has annual revenues of $20 million and has tripled sales in the past three years. It is on track to sell 75 machines this year. Its sole domestic competitor, Moore Nanotechnology Systems, also of Keene, expects to sell 25 machines this year, pushing revenues to $7 million, from $5 million in 2002. 

The machines are expensive at $250,000 to $1 million apiece, or about three to four times the price of similar-sized conventional machine tools, but their accuracy is startling. While in conventional machining--say, drilling holes in bumpers for cars and trucks--an accuracy of 0.001 inch or less is acceptable, ultraprecision machining measures work in nanometers, or a fraction of a millionth of an inch. At its best, precision machining gets down to the atomic level, able to create optical surfaces that would be damaged by the touch of a finger. 

To build a machine capable of such precision takes a fair bit of precision itself. It's an exacting process in which each part is isolated by air or oil to prevent friction from mucking things up. To start, a frame made from the highest-quality steel forms the foundation of the machine. The machine housing sits on a 1,000- pound granite slab, which rests on airbags that insulate it from the frame's vibrations. Inside the housing are the guts of the machine: A spindle--a steel shaft--is isolated by a thin layer of air in a brass sleeve. This creates an "air bearing" that stabilizes the spindle as it rotates at up to 15,000 rpm, without the errors that would show up if mechanical bearings were used. The other moving parts of the machine are the slideways. Those, made by Precitech out of a high-quality, fine-grained iron casting known as Durabar, support the spindles, which in turn hold the tool and the work piece. 

Like the spindle, the slideways don't come in contact with other metal parts; they float on a thin layer of oil. There's no grinding of the bearings, no brushing of metal against metal--none of the factors that wear out conventional machine tools. Even the flat linear motors used in these machines have no mechanical contact between their coils and other components. It all makes for an extremely smooth operation. 

To perform with total precision--and to avoid destroying the expensive optical parts they're fashioning--these tools are equipped with computer-controlled devices that continuously sample data from the part as it's being processed and relay that information back to the machine. The working parts of the machine then respond, moving in increments of as little as one nanometer. That movement, known in the industry as resolution, is 250 times more precise than that of conventional machine tools. As a result, surface finishes are now possible that deviate from absolute perfection by only one nanometer--about one-75,000th the thickness of a human hair. 

At the heart of an ultraprecision machine is a working tool tipped with a gem-quality diamond. The tiny stone enables "single- point diamond turning," a process used to make a wide variety of electro-optical components--night-vision systems, reflective mirrors for industrial and medical lasers, and telecom components, to name a few. 

It works like this: The diamond forms a tool that looks something like the beak of a woodpecker. This tool cleanly "turns," or removes, slivers of metal or plastic from the part rotating in front of it. While conventional tools run on tens of horsepower, "just ounces of thrust are required to keep our machine tool in contact with the material," says Walter Lewandowski, Precitech's R&D manager. "We're using a fine control to take a little bit of material off rather than a large amount of power to take off a lot of material." The less power used, the greater the precision of the process. 

Diamond turning works well with nonferrous materials such as aluminum, copper, tin, and silver, but it's more complicated to use the process on ferrous metals such as steel or on brittle materials like optical glass. A chemical reaction turns the diamond into graphite, destroying the cutting edge of the tool. 

That's a serious limitation, since steel is what's used to make fuel-injection components for car engines, not to mention the molds for millions of CDs, DVDs, contact lenses, and bifocals. To get around this, some users substitute a boron-nitrite tool for the diamond. These aren't as exact as diamonds, but ferrous parts usually do not require the same level of precision as optical components. Other machine users coat the steel with a paper-thin layer of nickel before turning it with a diamond, fooling it into acting like nonferrous material. With these modifications, ferrous metals can be machined to the required accuracy. 

The most exciting trend in precision machining is the ability to create optics with so-called free-form geometries. A growing demand for such lenses, mirrors, and other components, which have nonsymmetrical surfaces, has led to the development of machines that can operate on three, four, and even five axes. Inside these machines, the cutting tools and the work pieces engage in an intricate dance. In one advanced technique called raster flycutting- -so named because it resembles the raster, or scan, lines of a TV set--the piece being worked on is held stationary while the cutting tool or wheel moves in as many as five axes, like a vastly accelerated sculptor's spatula. 

The ability to mass-produce nonsymmetrical, or "aspheric," lenses is leading to astonishing advances in light manipulation. Aspheric lenses concentrate light more efficiently than conventional lenses, sharply reducing the number necessary to make a product work while at the same time increasing its efficacy. That's fueling a boom in all sorts of consumer and industrial electronics. "Ultraprecision machining is doing for light what integrated circuits did for electronics," says Alan R. Hedges, a Ph.D. in optics who manages precision machining at II-VI. 

The latest ultraprecision optical systems lie behind the improved accuracy of the laser-guided bombs and missiles used in the war in Iraq, for example. More-mundane applications surround us every day. 3M uses ultraprecision machines to make high-reflectivity tape for highway signs and police cars. Inside the tape, tiny pyramidal lenses make light bounce from one lens to another, and finally back toward the light source. Cameras with zoom lenses that once measured in feet now fit into a jacket pocket. The use of aspherical mirrors in laser printers has cut the length of their scanning system in half and dramatically reduced their cost. 

More innovations are coming into use. Consider the growing use of optics in automobiles, such as in the headlights in late-model cars. Not only are they smaller and more elongated than their predecessors, but in the corner you might spot a honeycomb of tiny lenses, put there to better concentrate the light. Other electro- optical devices--light-emitting diodes, or LEDs--are now being used as brake lights in some luxury cars. LEDs are 20 times more efficient than electric bulbs and can last for decades. 

Precision optical devices are finding their way into other parts of the car as well. Bishop Steering Technology, a Sydney engineering company, has developed an advanced opto-electronic sensor for power-steering mechanisms. The Bishop torque and angle sensor (BTAS) contains electro-optical chip and sensor modules that would replace the hydraulic and mechanical components in today's steering mechanisms. Bishop sensors on the steering-wheel shaft emit pulses of light that correspond to how far and how hard the driver turns the wheel. The control chip picks up that light and translates it into commands that it then relays electrically to mechanisms that steer the wheels. The system will be manufactured under license by Germany's Robert Bosch, and it is expected to debut in European cars in 2005. 

BTAS points the way toward the eventual elimination of mechanical steering, replacing the standard rack-and-pinion system with a computer-age one based on lasers and some 30 precision lenses. It would enable "drive by wire," a concept borrowed from aviation's "fly by wire": Instead of using a steering wheel, drivers could control the car with a side stick like those used in jets. The stick, replete with sensors and electro-optic controls, would transmit the driving data over an electrical wire. 

It may sound like the stuff of science fiction, but DaimlerChrysler, GM, and other automakers have already built prototype cars that eliminate steering columns and steering wheels as well as gas and brake pedals. Partial drive-by-wire has been showing up in recent models, including the elimination of the throttle cable in Ford's '03 Lincoln LS and its Thunderbird. Earlier this year DaimlerChrysler bought a 30% stake in Bishop Technologies, the parent of Bishop Steering, and also 100% of Bishop Steering's German subsidiary. 

Wide adoption of drive-by-wire systems would be a huge boon to precision-tool makers. "I can count the number of lenses in the car on the fingers of one hand. Most of them are in the CD player," says Precitech CEO David Davis. "Now all of a sudden the steering mechanism will contain 30 lenses." 

Perhaps the most important use of precision machining is in helping functionally blind people regain sight. Some 50,000 Americans and hundreds of thousands more around the world suffer from serious damage to the cornea, the clear dome that covers the front of the eye and helps it focus. If the cornea is damaged, light can cause unbearable pain, so most of those afflicted are forced to spend their lives in darkened rooms, seeing virtually nothing. 

Perry Rosenthal, a diminutive dynamo of an ophthalmologist, is using precision machining to change that. Rosenthal, who heads the nonprofit Boston Foundation for Sight, has resurrected and refined a 100-year-old German invention that fits over the sclera, or white of the eye. Unlike normal contact lenses, these arch over the cornea without touching it, enabling those with damaged corneas to wear them. Using such lenses, Rosenthal began treating patients with some success. His lens production didn't really pick up, however, until two years ago, when his clinic acquired a $275,000 machine from Precitech, financed by a grant from Bausch & Lomb. 

The new machine has both accelerated Rosenthal's output and improved the lenses. To avoid sticking to the eye and injuring it, the lenses need tiny grooves on their inner surface; these serve as conduits for tears, the eye's natural lubricant. Before, when the lenses were made on a far less reliable lathe, the channels had to be laboriously dug by hand; now they are inscribed automatically. 

The 400 people who now wear the Boston scleral lens include a young woman who could then resume her career as an artist, a grandmother who saw her grandchildren for the first time, and a young FedEx employee in Philadelphia who was able to return to work, saying that he now believed "in miracles." That may seem like divine intervention, but it's really just an example of what's possible with extreme precision. 

Let there be light 

The Boston Foundation for Sight uses an ultraprecision machine 

tool to make scleral lenses, which fit over the white of the eye 

and can restore sight to those suffering from severe corneal 

damage. 

Air-permeable plastic lens allows the eye to "breathe" 

Artificial tears are held in this pocket between the lens and the 

cornea 

Large diameter enables lens to arch over the cornea without 

touching it 

FEEDBACK fortunemail_letters@fortunemail.com. Stories from the 

Industrial Management & Technology section can be found at 

fortune.com/imt. Executives in manufacturing and research and 

others eligible to receive FORTUNE's Industrial Edition can 

subscribe by calling 888-394-5472. 

Caption: COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY PAXTON Precitech's diamond-tipped tool removes slivers of copper, creating an industrial mirror. COLOR DIAGRAM: DIAGRAM BY GUILBERT GATES COLOR PHOTO 


Document FORTU00020030609dz6n0000r


More Like This

 Article 298 *******************    



Technology

Mr. Nanotech; The latest venture guru. 

Elizabeth Corcoran 
1,158 words 
23 June 2003
Forbes
Forbes Magazine
128
Volume 171 Issue 13
English
(c) 2003 Forbes Inc. 

Steve Jurvetson is campaigning hard to become the biggest financier in the kingdom of the extremely small. 

When the internet boom began in 1995 Steve T. Jurvetson was a rookie venture capitalist fresh out of Stanford Business School. He saw Silicon Valley celebrities such as John Doerr grab the limelight as they proclaimed the Internet to be the greatest legal money engine ever created. Over the next few years his firm, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, landed such hits as Hotmail and Kana Software, although it missed investing in still-bigger hits Ebay, Amazon and Yahoo. 

Jurvetson is determined not to let the next wave slip by again. While most of Silicon Valley's surviving entrepreneurs and venture capitalists are now doing 12-step programs to break their addiction to Next Big Things, Jurvetson, at the ripe old age of 36, is loudly championing the latest N.B.T.: nanotechnology. 

"It's hard to think of an industry that won't be touched by nanotech," says Jurvetson, who has become such a fixture at conferences that he often gets introduced as "Mr. Nanotech." Nanodevices are measured on the molecular level, and Jurvetson likes to wow keynote crowds with this fact: There are more molecules in one drop of water than the number of transistors ever built. That says something, given that every Pentium 4 has 55 million transistors. 

Since 2000 Jurvetson has led his firm to invest in more tiny-tech startups than any other venture group: $47.5 million in 13 companies. About one-fifth of the firm's $640 million in new funding will go into nano. Some venture capitalists privately grumble that Jurvetson is pushing too loudly, too fast for a technology that often looks more like bench science than industrial products. In the past 18 months JPMorgan Partners has surveyed 300 nano business plans and invested in only one: Optiva, a South San Francisco firm that wants to use nanotech to make thin-panel displays. 

"Lots of things are getting funded that will be great products, but with few exceptions they'll be in $10 million to $30 million markets," cautions Vinod Khosla, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, who has yet to make his first nano investment. Even so, Jurvetson has one early win: In May portfolio company Coatue was acquired by a major computer chip maker. Coatue, which has been working on conductive organic polymers for memory chips, has had major support from Sunnyvale microprocessor maker AMD. 

In aiming for winners and a reputation as the best place for a nanoscientist to get money, Jurvetson's firm suffers through many a half-baked business plan. He held eight meetings with entrepreneurs trying to build companies around nanopowdered materials such as titanium dioxide--and then was flooded with 30 similar proposals, all of which he tossed. He also bowed out of a chance to join the second round for Nanosys, which has now raised $55 million on a venture to make biosensors and solar cells. 

Nanotechnology is not so much a new science as an approach to solving engineering problems. It's the manipulation of manufactured materials measuring less than 100 nanometers, or a thousandth the width of a strand of hair. One nanometer is less than ten atoms wide. Get small enough--down to molecules and atoms--and everything changes. Newtonian physics gives way to quantum mechanics. Biology, chemistry and physics fuse. Engineers start to think about programming matter to have the properties they want. This isn't rocket science. It's much harder. 

Jurvetson's portfolio reflects nanotech's far-flung possibilities. Arryx, in Chicago, sells tweezerlike tools that can grab particles as small as 150nm. Konarka Technologies, in Lowell, Mass., hopes to make inexpensive plastic sheets of solar cells that can be unrolled like wallpaper. ZettaCore, in Denver, aims to boost memory chip performance by using molecules to do ultradense, low-power data storage. Nantero, in Woburn, Mass., is working on memory chips that would pack a terabit of data in a square centimeter, a thousand times as much as stored in today's random access memory chips. In May Jurvetson invested in Vancouver, Canada-based D-Wave Systems, which aims to build a solid-state quantum computer. 

Jurvetson had his first brush with nano in 1989 while working on his master's in electrical engineering at Stanford University and designing chips in the summers at Hewlett-Packard. One course in particular captured his imagination: a lecture series on building machines that could manipulate molecules. The teacher was K. Eric Drexler, who coined the term "nanotechnology" in 1986 and later founded the Foresight Institute. 

Jurvetson went more pragmatic after getting his master's degree. He did a tour of duty as a consultant with Bain &Co., then returned to Stanford for business school before teaming up with venture capitalists Timothy Draper and John Fisher. Jurvetson networked furiously, becoming a name partner in the firm within six months. "He's the closest thing to a perfect human being that I've ever met," says Fisher, without a trace of irony. 

By 1999 Jurvetson's enthusiasm for the Internet was flagging and he was searching for what would be the next big thing. The nanoresearch community had moved swiftly from visualizing atoms to manipulating them to exploring ways to build devices measured in nanometers. When Jurvetson learned of the progress at a 1999 Foresight Institute conference, he was stunned. He began reading everything he could find on the subject, telling his partners he wanted to see any business plan that proposed to exploit nanotechnology.His partners backed his ambition to become the marquee name in nano investing. Media attention "raises the profile of the firm; it raises the deal flow. That's good for business," says Fisher. 

At times Jurvetson's attention is more on the technology than on business strategy. For instance, over a hot chocolate in a Santa Clara hotel in late April as he tried to raise a second financing round, Jurvetson wanted ZettaCore Chief Randolph Levine to dish on what other venture investors were saying. "Do they take for granted that the science is there?" Jurvetson asked him. "Or are they asking a lot of questions about the technology?" Turns out most financiers wanted to know far more about ZettaCore's plans to penetrate the memory-chip market than they did about how molecules store data. 

Jurvetson paused to chew on his plastic swizzle stick before diving back into nanospeak. What are the latest test results of Levine's prototype chip? How fast can it fetch and store data? Can ZettaCore stack its memory on top of other chip components? Has he looked at putting memory on other materials? "Steve is always pushing us to see how far to the edge of the envelope we can go," says Levine. 

Better to be a bit early than too late. 

Document FB00000020030613dz6n00013


More Like This

 Article 299 *******************    



Short Interest Highlights 

1,899 words 
25 June 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
C14 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Largest Short Positions 


Rank                    Jun 15       May 15       Change



 1  Cisco Systems      111,798,504  109,150,760   2,647,744
 2  Microsoft Corp     100,614,132  102,565,047  -1,950,915
 3  Intel Corp          94,853,056   77,573,492  17,279,564
 4  Sirius Satellite    79,109,307    6,134,362  72,974,945
 5  Nextel Communic     76,531,944   75,295,037   1,236,907
 6  Interactive Corps   55,240,711   46,536,852   8,703,859
 7  Oracle Corp         48,370,961   43,823,024   4,547,937
 8  Comcast Corp A      46,003,929   51,466,969  -5,463,040
 9  Juniper Networks    45,871,541   48,386,500  -2,514,959
10  Amazon.com Inc      45,277,580   51,436,610  -6,159,030
11  Dell Computer       44,586,606   53,601,618  -9,015,012
12  Level 3 Communicat  42,553,733   36,221,173   6,332,560
13  Applied Materials   41,877,502   42,773,820    -896,318
14  XM Satellite Radio  38,322,820   35,062,480   3,260,340
15  Charter Comm A      36,227,358   34,853,777   1,373,581
16  Sun Microsystems    33,120,664   24,837,342   8,283,322
17  Amgen Inc           28,279,774   24,946,714   3,333,060
18  ADC Telecommun      28,083,250    5,568,117  22,515,133
19  Yahoo! Inc          27,213,286   33,955,345  -6,742,059
20  Skyworks Solutions  26,823,507   22,772,013   4,051,494
21  Network Appliance   26,106,074   29,315,532  -3,209,458
22  Qualcomm Inc        25,574,382   22,557,643   3,016,739
23  Comcast Corp A Spl  25,573,255   27,337,224  -1,763,969
24  Andrew Corp         23,063,711   24,000,645    -936,934
25  KLA-Tencor Corp     22,651,821   24,410,816  -1,758,995
26  JDS Uniphase        22,332,887   17,908,239   4,424,648
27  Cree Inc            21,897,915   23,778,757  -1,880,842
28  Veritas Software    21,747,757   21,827,547     -79,790
29  BEA Systems         20,867,965   21,735,495    -867,530
30  Ericsson (LM) ADS   20,512,563   17,069,356   3,443,207
                    Largest Changes
Rank                       Jun 15     May 15        Change
    INCREASES (in shares)
 1  Sirius Satellite    79,109,307    6,134,362  72,974,945
 2  ADC Telecommun      28,083,250    5,568,117  22,515,133
 3  Intel Corp          94,853,056   77,573,492  17,279,564
 4  Interactive Corps   55,240,711   46,536,852   8,703,859
 5  Sun Microsystems    33,120,664   24,837,342   8,283,322
 6  Level 3 Communicat  42,553,733   36,221,173   6,332,560
 7  Alkermes Inc        15,106,221    9,358,351   5,747,870
 8  EarthShell Corp      9,104,206    3,811,290   5,292,916
 9  Comverse Technol     7,469,551    2,755,337   4,714,214
10  Oracle Corp         48,370,961   43,823,024   4,547,937
11  Credence Systems     7,807,534    3,372,675   4,434,859
12  JDS Uniphase        22,332,887   17,908,239   4,424,648
13  Internet Cap Grp    18,175,548   14,035,561   4,139,987
14  Skyworks Solutions  26,823,507   22,772,013   4,051,494
15  Redback Networks    10,103,046    6,205,728   3,897,318
16  Broadcom Corp       18,576,307   14,814,898   3,761,409
17  Silicon Valley Bncshs7,134,115    3,563,275   3,570,840
18  Siebel Systems Inc  15,193,283   11,627,205   3,566,078
19  Ericsson (LM) ADS   20,512,563   17,069,356   3,443,207
20  Enzon Pharmaceut     5,568,177    2,148,821   3,419,356
  DECREASES (in shares)
 1  Dell Computer       44,586,606   53,601,618  -9,015,012
 2  Yahoo! Inc          27,213,286   33,955,345  -6,742,059
 3  Amazon.com Inc      45,277,580   51,436,610  -6,159,030
 4  Comcast Corp A      46,003,929   51,466,969  -5,463,040
 5  PeopleSoft Inc      14,026,087   19,431,681  -5,405,594
 6  Marvell Technology   5,649,651   10,617,787  -4,968,136
 7  Apple Computer Inc  15,166,996   18,562,504  -3,395,508
 8  Millennium Pharma   11,918,074   15,299,494  -3,381,420
 9  Sandisk Corp        11,889,094   15,150,005  -3,260,911
10  Network Appliance   26,106,074   29,315,532  -3,209,458
11  Brocade Communic    12,484,596   15,410,618  -2,926,022
12  Check Point Sftwr    9,181,104   12,057,711  -2,876,607
13  Juniper Networks    45,871,541   48,386,500  -2,514,959
14  Human Genome Sci     8,028,805   10,432,217  -2,403,412
15  Abgenix Inc          5,932,802    8,239,403  -2,306,601
16  Nvidia Corp         15,091,639   17,374,154  -2,282,515
17  Take-Two Sftwr      10,811,306   13,058,748  -2,247,442
18  New Century Finl     2,666,379    4,664,700  -1,998,321
19  eResearchTech s      7,686,234    9,666,944  -1,980,710
20  Microsoft Corp     100,614,132  102,565,047  -1,950,915
21  ICOS Corp            5,513,676    7,454,942  -1,941,266
22  Cree Inc            21,897,915   23,778,757  -1,880,842
23  eBay Inc            18,132,799   19,984,157  -1,851,358
24  Hot Topic            4,783,652    6,618,219  -1,834,567
25  Comcast Corp A Spl  25,573,255   27,337,224  -1,763,969
               Largest Short Interest Ratios
    The short interest ratio is the number of days it would tak  e to
cover the short interest if trading continued at the ave  rage daily
volume for the month.
                           Jun 15    Avg Dly    Days to
                         Short Int     Vol-a     Cover
 1  Santos Ltd ADS         159,796     2,177        73
 2  Creo Inc             1,242,240    20,954        59
 3  Sports Resorts       1,376,134    23,854        58
 4  Zix Corp             6,247,656   119,941        52
 5  1-800 Contacts       1,486,306    32,694        45
 6  ParkerVision Inc     1,506,972    35,641        42
 7  FPIC Insurance       3,205,176    87,196        37
 8  Neose Technolog      1,908,413    57,892        33
 9  Research Frontiers   2,012,951    63,625        32
10  Renaissance Learn    2,758,640    91,609        30
11  Neoforma Inc         2,439,180    82,065        30
12  Polymedica Corp      4,185,173   144,641        29
13  MemberWorks Inc      1,629,973    58,755        28
14  ZymoGenetics Inc     1,970,815    71,532        28
15  Medis Technolog        927,395    33,662        28
16  Echelon Corp         4,905,146   184,902        27
17  Odyssey Healthcare   5,985,651   229,457        26
18  Crown Media Hldgs    1,272,006    49,927        25
19  MCG Capital Corp     2,113,177    85,887        25
20  SCP Pool Corp        3,895,955   163,430        24
  Issues that split in the latest month are excluded. The largest
percentage increase and decrease sections are limited to issues with
previously established short positions in both months.
                    Largest % Increases
 Rank                        Jun 15     May 15          %
 1  Edge Petroleum         147,472         1,781   8,180.3
 2  Santos Ltd ADS         159,796         3,820   4,083.1
 3  Altair Nanotech        699,888        26,370   2,554.1
 4  Sagent Technology    1,787,842       104,979   1,603.0
 5  Vion Pharmaceut        428,049        26,118   1,538.9
 6  Targeted Genetics      551,312        34,743   1,486.8
 7  Oxigene Inc          2,493,651       174,762   1,326.9
 8  Introgen Therapeut     616,591        46,977   1,212.5
 9  Sirius Satellite    79,109,307     6,134,362   1,189.6
10  Deltagen Inc         1,495,210       129,876   1,051.3
11  Meridian Bioscien      161,433        14,845     987.5
12  Delcath Systems        324,418        34,030     853.3
13  Aastrom Bioscience     276,314        32,814     742.1
14  SCO Group Inc          276,810        33,397     728.8
15  CytRx Corp             711,123       106,228     569.4
16  Factual Data Corp      121,459        18,448     558.4
17  Antares Pharma Inc     103,256        16,751     516.4
18  First Albany Cos       177,394        30,945     473.3
19  Orchid Biosciences     292,301        51,084     472.2
20  Hi/fn Inc               98,340        17,580     459.4
21  Pharmos Corp         2,079,614       375,476     453.9
22  ADC Telecommun      28,083,250     5,568,117     404.4
23  Axonyx Inc             313,173        62,276     402.9
24  Lionbridge Technol     922,397       186,444     394.7
25  Atari Inc            2,394,565       530,349     351.5
26  dELiA*s Corp           730,875       164,244     345.0
27  Central Eur Media      225,813        55,252     308.7
28  New Focus Inc          809,915       202,355     300.2
29  Roxio Inc            2,747,493       691,822     297.1
30  Dassault Sys ADS       321,482        84,265     281.5
31  VA Software Corp     3,207,057       860,298     272.8
32  Electronics Imag     1,636,730       441,557     270.7
33  State Auto Fin'l       129,915        35,153     269.6
34  GeneLabs Technol       488,408       134,325     263.6
35  ATP Oil & Gas          492,053       139,922     251.7
                    Largest % Decreases
 Rank                       Jun 15       May 15       %
 1  Crossroads Systems       2,177       159,185     -98.6
 2  MerLyn STRIDES GE        9,393       250,690     -96.3
 3  Bioject Medical          4,399        80,817     -94.6
 4  Axeda Systems            9,507       115,857     -91.8
 5  Brio Software          122,124     1,375,212     -91.1
 6  Aber Diamond            15,639       161,848     -90.3
 7  MerLynNASD100           49,855       436,455     -88.6
 8  Dobson Communic         29,246       225,865     -87.1
 9  Wickes Inc              32,144       245,057     -86.9
10  Pacific Internet        14,088       102,576     -86.3
11  Evolving Systems        16,561       115,054     -85.6
12  VistaCare Inc A        372,803     1,906,530     -80.4
13  EP MedSystems Inc      110,220       532,936     -79.3
14  Granite Brdcstng        46,585       188,753     -75.3
15  Wire One Technol       136,467       516,697     -73.6
16  ECtel Ltd               27,996       104,583     -73.2
17  Quality Systems        113,891       412,276     -72.4
18  Orthofix Int'l NV       63,327       213,336     -70.3
19  Genzyme Molecular       36,063       108,992     -66.9
20  ThermoGenesis Cp       149,854       451,557     -66.8
21  EasyLink Services      187,468       523,371     -64.2
22  Saflink Corp           123,494       336,489     -63.3
23  Akzo Nobel ADS         320,373       773,539     -58.6
24  Raindance Comm         103,696       238,594     -56.5
25  Modine Mfg             139,353       289,607     -51.9
26  LivePerson Inc          91,394       184,773     -50.5
27  Allscripts Hlthcr      108,321       214,423     -49.5
28  Anglo Amer ADS         317,975       610,590     -47.9
29  Marvell Technology   5,649,651    10,617,787     -46.8
30  Molex Inc A            322,856       580,462     -44.4
31  New Century Finl     2,666,379     4,664,700     -42.8
32  Interland Inc        1,419,364     2,474,367     -42.6
33  Planar Systems         243,376       422,613     -42.4
34  HealtheTech Inc        191,381       327,411     -41.5
35  Rediff.com ADS         138,986       232,148     -40.1


Document j000000020030625dz6p0001m

More Like This



 Article 302 *******************    



Self-Healing Materials Aren't Far Off 

By Tom Becker 
Dow Jones Newswires 
864 words 
16 July 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
A10 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- The 1991 film "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" introduced the world to a robot assassin that could instantly repair itself from shotgun blasts and molten lava bursts. 

More than a decade later, researchers aren't far off in their quest to design materials -- plastics, metals, and even cement -- that can heal themselves. The hope is to build lighter airplanes that use less fuel, to construct buildings and bridges with stronger, more flexible steel, and to pave a road with cement that heals itself at the first sign of a crack. Researchers believe this technology could save industries and governments billions of dollars if they can harness it in an inexpensive way. 

"We're moving towards a time when the physical objects around us will be made of active materials that can change shape, heal themselves and have built-in computation," said Christine Peterson, president of Foresight Institute, a nonprofit think tank. "Right now most objects are stupid objects with no ability to respond to us. One day we'll be able to signal them to change in some way we desire." 

The research is being done mainly in the field of nanotechnology, the study of objects at the molecular level. Molecules are independent of one another but are drawn together by things like electrical pulses. The idea is that by changing the properties of individual molecules, researchers can change the overall properties of the structure the molecules form. 

To date, the furthest advances in nanotechnology have been made in developing tiny sensors that can detect movement or a change in temperature, among other things. But recently more scientists have begun to study the mechanical aspect of nanotechnology with a view to making stronger products that cost less to maintain. 

Most of the research is government funded while some is done at the university level. Individual industries have shied away from the research because commercial applications are more likely to be achieved in five years than a year or two. 

"Most industries want the solution yesterday," said Surendra Shah, director of the Center for Advanced Cement-based Materials at Northwestern University. 

Much of this research is being done at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. One of the goals is to have self-healing structures in outer space. 

"What we're after is a material that will heal itself if you penetrate it," said Mia Siochi, assistant head for advanced materials and processing research at the NASA Langley Research Center. "In space, if a meteorite hits a structure and goes through it, we want the structure to be able to close the hole itself. We've made materials that show a lot of promise." 

NASA scientists are studying the outer coating of golf balls -- a plastic called surlyn. Surlyn is found in everything from bowling pins to dog-chew toys because of its ability to take a beating. Surlyn, Ms. Siochi said, has the ability to heal itself at the nano-level when damaged. For reasons still being studied, surlyn's molecules unite once they are separated. 

NASA doesn't believe surlyn is the answer for its program because it likely won't be able to handle the ravages of outer space -- including massive radiation, Ms. Siochi said. Still, researchers are studying it because they believe any self-healing material they develop will have many of the same properties as surlyn. 

Much of the research at NASA and other labs involves creating individual spheres less than a millimeter across, but larger than molecules. The spheres, which aren't visible to the naked eye, are embedded into a certain object -- say a basketball. Each sphere contains materials that essentially have the same properties as the molecules of the basketball. On the outside of each sphere is a coating of a powderlike substance. 

If the surface of the basketball is punctured, the molecules and spheres that make up the surface of the basketball are also punctured. Once an individual sphere is cut, the materials inside are released. Those materials react with the sphere's powder coating and fill the hole created by the puncture. This would all happen in a matter of seconds. "It's pretty wild stuff and yet it's not talked about that much," Ms. Peterson said. 

Draper Laboratories is studying ways to make molecules instantly come back together once they are separated. One area of research is in nanovelcro, said Amy Duwel, group leader for Draper's Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems division. Draper is an independent nonprofit lab that was spun off from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Mass., in the 1970s but often works with the university on projects."The concept of how it works is no different than saying you can't cut through water," Ms. Duwel said. "When you slide a knife through water you are separating it, but as soon as the knife is removed the water comes back together like nothing happened." 

Nanovelcro acts much like regular velcro. The nanovelcro is added to the surface of molecules to make them stick together and, when momentarily separated, to make them stick together again. 

Document j000000020030716dz7g0005p


More Like This

 Article 303 *******************    



Greenpeace Warns of Pollutants From Nanotechnology

By Antonio Regalado 
896 words 
25 July 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

EXCITEMENT OVER nanotechnology is attracting billions in government and private funding. But now the hot new science, which deals with manmade structures just a few billionths of a meter in size, is drawing something else: antagonists in the environmental movement. 

Fresh from the fight over genetically modified foods, international environmental groups are starting to raise concerns over nanotechnology. Yesterday, Greenpeace International called for a moratorium on the release of nanoparticles in commercial products until any risks can be assessed. A 70-page report by the group warns that novel microscopic structures being invented in laboratories world-wide could "constitute whole new classes of nonbiodegradable pollutants." 

Nanotechnology may one day revolutionize areas from electronics to manufacturing, with analysts projecting a $40 billion to $70 billion market by 2010. Already, some simple nanotech materials are finding their way into consumer products, like automobile fuel lines and tennis rackets. And governments are making major investments in basic research. 

So far, there's no evidence nanotech poses much danger. And if predictions play out, the new materials won't only be a boon for industry and consumers, but are also likely to aid the environment. For instance, the Environmental Protection Agency is funding teams to use nanoparticles in advanced water filters and techniques to remediate pollution. 

Still, safety questions tend to serve as a dueling ground for opponents with deep ideological differences about how technology is transforming society. The greens hope by raising safety concerns now they can win influence over how the technology plays out. 

"What we want to avoid is the situation where a small group of financially and technologically interested people develop something and thrust it on the rest of the world," said Douglas Parr, chief scientist of Greenpeace UK, which helped lead the largely successful campaign against the introduction of biotechnology crops in Europe. 

Environmental groups are concerned that the new generation of materials isn't well regulated. The Greenpeace report warns that the particles could be inhaled, potentially causing harm to humans, or could bind with poisonous metals and help disperse them through the environment. 

Mark Modzelewski, director of the NanoBusiness Alliance, a trade group in New York City, says some of environmentalists' fears appear inspired by science-fiction scenarios dealing with swarms of tiny, deadly robots, like those portrayed in Michael Crichton's best-selling novel "Prey." 

Though environmental worries represent a new twist, nanotechnology already has generated a fever pitch of interest, fueled by start-up companies seeking to raise funds and develop new products. Phaedon Avouris, a nanotechnology expert at International Business Machines Corp.'s Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., says the attention is starting to bite back. "When people hype the promise, the general public thinks that we are a lot further ahead than we are," he says. 

Industry groups are beginning to respond to the latest criticisms. The NanoBusiness Alliance recently formed a panel to look at the risks of nanotechnology, and in June Mr. Modzelewski sat down with environmental groups, as well as officials from the Environmental Protection Agency, to find common ground. 

"It wouldn't have happened if we hadn't rattled the chains," says Pat Mooney, executive director of ETC Group, an antiglobalization advocacy organization in Winnipeg, Manitoba, that earlier this year released a report critical of nanotech research. 

The ETC report, called "The Big Down," caused a major spat in the United Kingdom after it found its way into the hands of Prince Charles. The Prince of Wales, known for holding a dim view of genetically modified foods, asked his staff to organize a meeting of scientific experts, said a spokesman. 

In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency plans to fund $ 4 million in research to assess possible damage from nanotechnology to ecosystems and humans. Nora Savage, an EPA scientist, says that new nanomaterials aren't currently subject to any special health or environmental regulations. But because they have unusual properties, Ms. Savage says, the EPA is considering whether to regulate nanotechnology more closely. 

Nanotechnology supporters fear that the U.S. could fall behind Japan, whose investment in nanotech is higher on a per capita basis. The recently launched U.S. National Nanotechnology Initiative is spending more than $700 million a year on research. 

In addition, the U.S. Army believes the science could yield advanced bulletproof fabrics as well as superweapons. It recently agreed to invest $50 million in a new Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

Environmental concerns are being raised just as companies in the U.S. and Japan are planning to make large quantities of carbon nanotubes. The hollow straws of pure carbon atoms are unusually strong and already have been incorporated into some commercial materials. 

Bob Gower, head of Carbon Nanotechnologies Inc., says engineers from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health visited his company and found that because the tubes clumped together, they weren't likely to be inhaled by workers. 

At IBM, the tubes are being put into electronic circuits without special precautions, says Tom Theis, director of physical-science research at the Yorktown facility. "Long term, what you have to think about is if people start making tons of them to go into cloth or automobile bodies, then you have chance for a much more widespread exposure," he says. 

Document j000000020030725dz7p0002x


More Like This

 Article 304 *******************    



Science & Technology: Military Hardware 

SUPER SOLDIERS New materials and technologies could boost the mobility and safety of U.S. troops 

By Otis Port in Cambridge, Mass. 
1,053 words 
28 July 2003
BusinessWeek 
62 
Number 3843 
English
(Copyright 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc.) 

The U.S. Army wants to turn G.I. Joes and Janes into superheroes right out of Hollywood. In the 1987 film Predator, Arnold Schwarzenegger played an Army commando battling an alien in a suit that rendered it invisible. The film got mixed reviews, but the Army hopes its so-called Future Warrior outfit will be a smash on the battlefield. ``With a uniform like Predator's, our soldiers would really have a lopsided advantage,'' says Jean-Louis ``Dutch'' De Gay, a systems engineer at the Army's Soldier Systems Center in Natick, Mass. 

The black battle garb planned for the late 2010s looks scary enough when you can see it, but invisible soldiers would be a lot scarier. No joke. Scientists at DuPont Co. are already hunting for ways to manipulate light so soldiers could appear to disappear. And if that doesn't pan out, EIC Laboratories Inc. in Norwood, Mass., is working on ``electrochromic camouflage'' -- a chameleon fabric that would change colors instantly to blend in with its surroundings. 

Research on such concealment methods is classified. However, at the new Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, scientists are free to talk about the combat gear they're designing. And soldiers aren't the only ones they aim to help. Their work also could help protect firefighters, police officers, and other emergency responders -- with self-administering tourniquets, lightweight body armor, and artificial muscles. MIT President Charles M. Vest didn't want to ``get tangled up in classified research,'' so he insisted that all developments spawned on campus be available to industry as well as the military. 

The MIT center, which opened in late May, was launched with a $50 million, five-year grant from the Army. The budget was doubled by matching funds from MIT and a dozen industrial partners, including Raytheon, Dow Corning, and DuPont. The companies signed up to tap MIT's expertise in nanotechnology -- creating new materials and devices molecule by molecule, instead of fabricating them from bulk materials. Materials engineered with such ingredients as carbon nanotubes can have properties that are otherwise impossible to achieve. As a result, says De Gay, ``science fiction is rapidly becoming reality -- and that could change forever the way wars are fought.'' 

One concept for ``smart'' body armor would weave thin pads or even cloth from fibers that can sense the impact of a bullet or shrapnel and automatically stiffen, becoming even more impenetrable than the cumbersome ceramic-plate armor troops wear now. Another major goal is cloth that eliminates the need for ungainly biochemical-warfare suits. Instead, regular uniform fabric may sport nano-size umbrellas that open to seal the cloth's pores, making it impervious to airborn chemicals and pathogens. 

In both cases, a key objective is to take a load off soldiers' backs. Today, they lug 60 pounds or more into battle, depending upon which weapon they carry, and the so-called marching load is almost twice as heavy. In five years, the Army wants to trim the combat load to 40 pounds, and then to 15 pounds with the Future Warrior outfit. MIT's Vest predicts that armored vests, which weigh 28 pounds now, will end up ``at around eight pounds, maybe even five.'' 

Artificial muscles that could enable soldiers to leap tall walls, if not buildings, are in the works, too. One candidate is made from polypyrrole. It flexes when jolted by electricity, then relaxes when the juice is turned off. So far, though, its reactions are much too slow. 

Even with the best armor, wounds are inevitable. So when a soldier is hit in an arm or leg, special fibers in the uniform would constrict into a tourniquet. This will be a real life-saver, because half of all battlefeild deaths are due to massive blood loss before wounded soldiers can be treated. In addition, sensors would provide the soldier's vital signs and location to medics via radio. Until the Future Warrior garment is ready, soldiers will wear an adhesive chest patch fitted with sensors and a tiny radio. It's being developed by MIT partner CIMIT (Center for Integration of Medicine & Innovative Technology) in Cambridge, Mass. 

To satisfy its industrial partners and avoid chewing up money needlessly, the new institute will be ``run on a business model, with regular milestone reviews,'' says Edwin L. ``Ned'' Thomas, the MIT materials-science professor tapped as its head. It will have a staff of 40 MIT scientists from eight departments, plus 100-odd graduate students and visiting researchers from the Army and industry. 

Thomas admits that some wish-list items may never materialize. But that's okay -- the idea is to infuse army research with new thinking. So the Pentagon plans to announce, starting in August, more research centers at other universities, focused on such areas as biotechnology and detecting landmines. In the same spirit, to supplement its $1.2 billion research effort, the Army will funnel $25 million to small, innovative companies that probably never dreamed of getting a Pentagon contract. The fund's top priority? Finding better ways to generate and store power for the Army's high-tech gadgets. It's easy to see why: A brigade of 1,500 troops goes through 120 tons of batteries a year. And that's before they hit their invisibility buttons. 


Warrior of the Future
Innovations that could show up on the battlefield during the next decade
ALL-SEEING SENSORS
Radar, night vision, and video cameras would probe behind walls and into the
dark -- and relay images to commanders
DISPLAY
Built into the visor, it would show text messages, map coordinates, and other
tactical info
SUSTENANCE PACK
Air filtration system and drinking tube would enable soldiers to fight when
under biochemical attack
BIO SENSORS
Next to the skin, they would track vital signs and relay data to medics
BODY ARMOR
A cloth-like material would allow more flexibility than the current armor
plates
'SMART' FABRIC
Would sense and then seal out chemical or biological weapons, eliminating the
need for a separate biowarfare suit
ARTIFICIAL MUSCLE
External bone-and-muscle system would extend endurance and provide extra
strength


Document bw00000020030724dz7s0001v


More Like This

 Article 305 *******************    



Researchers Look to Unravel Mystery of Making Spider Silk 

By Frank Byrt 
Dow Jones Newswires 
1,029 words 
30 July 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B3C 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

BOSTON -- Some of the world's leading scientists are trying to untangle a chemical conundrum: What makes the silken web of a spider so strong, yet so light and forgiving? 

"Spider silk is tougher per gram weight than steel," yet is lightweight, flexible and biodegradable, said spider-web researcher Paula Hammond, an associate professor of chemical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Mass. 

While the properties of spider-web silk have been well-known for centuries, scientists have recently been able to replicate them. Now the military and corporate world are intrigued by potential applications like bulletproof clothing, human-tendon replacement, medical-surgery sutures, or even mountaineer's climbing ropes. 

There have been many attempts at creating synthetic spider silk. One effort involved raising spiders in colonies to harvest their silk. But that failed because the critters are difficult to domesticate, being territorial and cannibalistic, Ms. Hammond said. 

Other researchers have gathered spiders to collect their DNA, implanted it in goats, then harvested the spider-silk protein from the goats' milk. That approach is being used by Nexia Biotechnologies Inc. of Montreal, which has developed a product it calls BioSteel, based on recombinant spider-silk proteins and using what a company news release calls its own "transgenic goat technology." 

Spiders spin their webs by secreting a fibrous protein as a fluid which forms into a solid, a process that still is being researched. Ms. Hammond said her group's work has created "first-generation" spider-silk material in the lab. 

Ms. Hammond heads a team of five M.I.T. scientists who are taking a novel approach, breaking down the chemistry of spider silk to duplicate it in the lab in the form typical of synthetic polymers. The researchers will determine how changes in the chemical structures affect the physical properties of the spider silk. 

The wrinkle in spider webs is that they have both a soft, elastic property used in the cross lines, as well as small, hard crystallite anchors that provide peripheral support. Some parts of the silk, such as the "dragline" that a spider uses to rappel from a ceiling, are known to combine components of both. 

Ms. Hammond said the ultimate goal of the project is to create a system that makes it easy and economical to produce large quantities of material with the properties of spider silk, without being dependent on the vagaries of Mother Nature. 

Now that the spider-silk material has been created, the next step in the project is to develop an appropriate method of "spinning" the material into forms needed for specific applications. Gareth McKinley, an M.I.T. professor of mechanical engineering, heads the "spinning" part of the project. Ms. Hammond said she estimates the team is about halfway through a five-year effort. 

Using goats, the Nexia approach has shown positive results, Ms. Hammond said, but is likely to be expensive, which may preclude the production volumes necessary to meet widespread demand. 

Nexia declined to comment, but said in a July 17 news release that it is continuing to evaluate a variety of applications. The company said it is preparing clinical data to make a premarket approval filing to the Food and Drug Administration for surgical sutures based on its spider-silk product BioSteel. 

M.I.T.'s spider-silk-research effort, originally launched in concert with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, is being conducted under the aegis of the U.S. Army's Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies, a multifaceted effort aimed at creating technology that will outfit the foot soldier of the future. It was officially launched at M.I.T. on May 22 with an initial $50 million in funding from the Army. 

Chemicals and textiles company E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co. of Wilmington, Del., is one of the backers of the project, both financially and intellectually, said Wayne Marsh, a chemist and research manager at the company. DuPont gave M.I.T. a $35 million grant in 2000 and is collaborating on research in biotechnology and materials science with the university. 

Mr. Marsh said DuPont tried to figure out the spider-silk conundrum on its own, but dropped the research about five years ago because "we weren't able to solve it." Still, the company can contribute equipment and expertise in textile making to the M.I.T. project. 

"We've said that if it makes sense we would do the next step of scale up with them," Mr. Marsh said, and provide some of DuPont's expertise and spinning equipment. 

Even if the M.I.T. researchers solve only certain aspects of such a delicate problem, it could help DuPont's commercial efforts. "We may find it has properties that go into a film, or a membrane or composite" and therefore would be a component of a final product, Mr. Marsh said. 

The Army has taken a shot of its own at solving the spider-silk mystery. Steve Arcidiacono, a microbiologist and researcher at the U.S. Army Natick Labs in Natick, Mass., said that facility worked on spider-web-silk research for several years but hasn't done anything on it in the past year or so as other matters have assumed priority amid the war in Iraq. 

"We were able to produce fibers that were similar to the natural spider silk but not exact duplicates," and it was on a very limited level, he said. 

He said his researchers used a bacterial-fermentation approach to producing the spider-silk-like proteins,"but the problem was the bacteria didn't make very much of it for a variety of reasons we never quite figured out." However, there was enough proteins produced to do some tensile tests on in the lab. 

"Our initial interest in silk was for ballistic protective items, such as vests and helmets," he said. 

For now, such applications appear to be "pretty far away," he said, "although we see medical uses, such as micro-sutures" for surgery, as some of the first applications of such material, Mr. Arcidiacono said. 

Document j000000020030730dz7u00005


More Like This

 Article 306 *******************    



Showdown; Microsoft's underdog Xbox may have found a chink in Sony's armor-the online game market. 

Kemp Powers 
1,132 words 
11 August 2003
Forbes
Forbes Magazine
86
Volume 171 Issue 16
English
(c) 2003 Forbes Inc. 

Microsoft's underdog Xbox is looking like a leader online. Sony had better look alive. 

Microsoft's videogames have had more fits than starts. Its console, the two-year-old Xbox, loses something like $100 per unit sold, or a billion dollars a year. Xbox had a disastrous launch in Japan and still runs far behind Sony's PlayStation 2 in worldwide sales. But the game's not over. Witness the Electronic Entertainment Expo, or E3, the gaming industry's annual confab in May. For the goateed and backpack-toting attendees, E3 is a big, honking sneak peek at the next killer games, and Microsoft had the best of them all: Halo 2, the sequel to its 2001 sci-fi action masterpiece. People waited hours in line just to see the eight-minute demonstration. "It's one of our most ambitious projects," says Robert (Robbie) Bach, the Microsoft senior vice president in charge of Xbox. "It's a title that will sell anytime, anyplace." 

But it will play only on Xbox. And if you want to blast away online with far-flung friends you have to pay $50 a year to subscribe to Microsoft's new gaming network, Xbox Live. Halo is just the first of several new Xbox and Xbox Live exclusives, including sure hits such as Doom 3, Project Gotham Racing 2 and Counter-Strike. All of them, Bach says, play better online. 

More than anyone predicted, online gaming is driving the all-important software sales that are the profit engine of the $10 billion videogame industry. Dwarfed by Sony, which claims 60% of the North American market, Microsoft has bet far bigger and bolder to grab the online advantage as both feverishly race to get their next-generation consoles into stores by 2006. 

"This generation we were statistically out of the playoffs before we even laced up our shoes," concedes J Allard, vice president in charge of Xbox Live. "Next season, there won't be an 18-month head start. We'll be neck and neck right out of the gate, and Xbox Live will give us a huge online head start." 

The Xbox Live network launched in November and passed the 500,000 subscriber mark in seven months, beating, by 80,000, the number of people registered to play PlayStation 2 games online, despite the fact that Microsoft has sold only 9.4 million Xboxes to Sony's 51 million PlayStations. Nintendo, with 9.6 million GameCubes sold, has limited online ambitions. 

Consider the case of Ghost Recon. This military-style shooting game was released on both Xbox and PlayStation 2 in November. The Xbox version was online-enabled, and the PlayStation version wasn't. Despite the enormous differences in installed base, more copies of the game have sold on Xbox, (650,000) than on PS2 (550,000). 

Sony sniffs at the comparisons. "Online gaming is a very important part of our strategy, but not the end-all and be-all," says Kazuo Hirai, the president of Sony Computer Entertainment America. "When you're losing market share, you're tempted to talk about things down the road." 

Microsoft has a habit of herding customers into its own technology corrals. Xbox Live is no exception, with Microsoft reaping nearly all of the financial benefits and exerting total control over the game network. PlayStation throws the gate open to allow any game developer to run its own player network. In May Electronic Arts, the world's biggest game publisher, shunned Microsoft and announced that through March 2004 its bestselling sports games will be playable online only with Sony. 

But Microsoft may be onto something. There are currently 28 online games for Xbox and 18 for PS2. By January the gap will widen a bit: 50 for Microsoft, 32 for Sony. Bach has directed much of his reported $500 million marketing budget toward Xbox Live games such as Mechassault. Live kiosks are now prominent at many retailers, and Xbox is sponsoring high-profile events like this summer's Lollapalooza rock tour. 

In June Microsoft launched the XSN Sports network, which will allow players to create leagues and maintain long-term records while playing games such as NFL Fever, a nice counter to the Electronic Arts snub. The network will also be capable of paging cell phones and PDAs to invite players to join games. "Xbox is the superior online gaming platform, and by the next wave of consoles, Xbox will be the online brand,"says Daniel Hsu, editor of Electronic Gaming Monthly magazine. 

Xbox Live's success almost didn't happen. In 1999, when Xbox was still a skunkworks project, Allard and online strategist Cameron Ferroni wanted to produce a console without a jack for what were then ubiquitous dial-up modems and install only a jack for speedier broadband cable or DSL modems. At the time broadband was only in 4.6% of U.S. households, and most analysts were saying it would take years to catch on. "My attitude has always been to bet on the future, not against it," says Allard. 

Bach and gaming content vice president Edward Fries were adamantly opposed. Says Allard: "Bill [Gates] played both sides, but Ed and Robbie said the numbers were not enough. Their first-year subscriber estimates were between 20,000 and 80,000, and we needed hundreds of thousands of gamers online in the first year, and millions by the next generation, to be successful." 

So Allard and Ferroni conducted a survey with 3,000 gamers, who told them they craved the ability to quickly download large files such as new game levels and characters, making broadband a must. Bach got the picture, but he didn't make the financial decision to go exclusively with broadband until the summer of 2000, several months after Xbox was officially announced. Since then, broadband penetration in the U.S. has doubled, to 20%. 

Sony's original option for online gamers was to sell them a network adaptor as a separate $40 peripheral. Then it saw what happened last year when it released Socom Navy Seals. The military-style shooter sold 1 million copies rapidly, with nearly half of the buyers routinely engaging in online play. Lesson learned. In June Sony began prepackaging a network adaptor with every PlayStation. The next-generation PlayStation 3 will doubtless have a broadband jack built in. 

Xbox Live may gross $25 million this year, a nanoparticle on Microsoft's income statement. But for now, an online footprint slightly bigger than Sony's is reward enough. "Xbox Live will be in 20 countries this year," Allard says. "Most game developers don't have servers or lawyers in 20 countries." 

Document FB00000020030725dz8b00011


More Like This

 Article 307 *******************    



The Future of Tech -- The Technology Road Map

SPEAKING OUT: THE VIEW FROM THE TOP; BW asks techdom's heaviest hitters to weigh in on the future of innovation, economic advantage, and more 

3,976 words 
25 August 2003
BusinessWeek
108
Number 3846
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

BILL GATES 

Microsoft 

What shape will the tech recovery take? 

If anybody thinks we're going back to where we were in the late '90s, they're wrong. That level of spending just isn't going to happen. There's general growth in the economy. There's a move to use technology to empower workers better. There's a move toward vendors that really offer comprehensive solutions. So there are a lot of interesting trends that mean there's some growth for companies like Microsoft. But it doesn't mean some return. The period we're in right now is more normal than the period we were in then. 

Does that suggest the tech industry is mature? 

The impact of technology is going to continue to be very dramatic. The cost of computation, and the cost of what you get in terms of the value of software, are going down at an incredible rate. So there are many scenarios that were never possible before, including some that got hyped up during the bubble, that actually become realistic. Most of the breakthroughs -- efficiency of e-commerce, collaboration -- are still in front of us. 

Does Microsoft's decision to issue a dividend and hand out restricted stock instead of options mean it's a mature, slow-growth company? 

No. Obviously we're a bigger company today than we were 25 years ago. In terms of percentage growth, we had a lot of years where year after year we grew 60%. We're not a startup. If people are just recognizing that, it's kind of strange. We are, on a relative basis, a very highly valued company. But we only get revenue as we innovate. Just to be a large company moving forward, we have to do a lot of innovation. And there's more innovation coming out of the work that we'll do in the next five years than in any five-year period in the history of the company. 

What will be the big areas of growth? 

Look at business intelligence, workflow, collaboration, real-time communication: We've just scratched the surface. How do you make all those back-end systems easy to manage and secure? How do you make it easy to write Web service applications that cut across the boundaries, inside a company and between companies? Now that we have all this Internet connectivity, how can buying and selling and planning be done differently? That's an unrealized dream. Our challenge is to make those dramatically simpler. 

MICHAEL DELL 

Dell 

Is the tech industry mature? 

The evolution of technology is showing no signs of maturing whatsoever. If you look at nanomaterials or photonics, carbon nanotubes, all the things that are going on in new types of energy, environmentally better materials -- there's no shortage of new technology coming. IT is nowhere near maturity. Certainly, there's consolidation among business models and competitors, but it doesn't have the telltale signs of a mature industry where there's no innovation. 

What's your take on Nick Carr's thesis that technology no longer gives corporate buyers a competitive advantage? 

Just about anything in business can be either a sinkhole or a competitive advantage if you do it really, really bad or you do it really, really well. And information technology is an often misunderstood field. You've got a lot of people who don't know what they're doing and don't do it very well. For us, IT is a huge advantage. For Wal-Mart, GE, and many other companies, technology is a huge advantage and will continue to be. Does that mean that you just pour money in and gold comes out? No, you can screw it up really bad. 

CARLY FIORINA 

Hewlett-Packard 

How is innovation changing? 

In the 1990s, innovation was really focused around killer apps, hot boxes. Technology was seen as a stand-alone, silver-bullet answer to a lot of problems. Technology isn't a silver bullet. The innovation that is going to be most important is what I call innovation around fundamental capabilities and fundamental fabrics -- the kinds of innovation that weave systems and networks together. Security, mobility, rich media would be examples. These require systems approaches. They also require scope and scale, which is why we have been so convinced that the industry will consolidate into fewer, bigger players. 

Is the tech recovery centered on companies making better use of the gear they have vs. buying the latest and greatest? 

Companies are realizing that they are not getting sufficient return out of the IT investment they've already made. So a lot of them are focusing on: How do I increase my return before I start again? That's one of the reasons I've said that technology is going to grow at two times GDP, not five times GDP. 

What's the outcome if IT grows at two times GDP? 

It means not everybody survives. This could still be a great industry. Two-times GDP is not bad. And if you're Hewlett-Packard, a $73 billion company operating in 167 countries, we think that's a pretty great industry to be in. But it does mean that because customer requirements are increasing, not everybody can get over the bar. So there will be fewer winners. 

What are the roadblocks to a full-throttle tech recovery? 

The general health of the economy is a huge deal. It takes confidence for people to make capital investments. Beyond that, the fact that people must spend real dollars on technology is as inevitable as the sun rising. 

JOE KRAUS 

Entrepreneur 

Is it harder launching a startup today than when you co-founded Excite in 1993? 

This is a great time to start a company. In the boom years, a sense of entitlement pervaded Silicon Valley. That attitude is gone. Instead, you're hiring people who are doing startups because they love small companies. Second, you can find people who have actually done their jobs before. You couldn't do that in the boom. 

What is the greatest threat to a tech recovery right now? 

One is that there has been a runup in consumer Internet stocks, be it eBay, Amazon, or Yahoo! Those are definitely real businesses. But the runup seems to be without adequate explanation. If those were to fall back, maybe that deflates the psychological element of this recovery. Second, I still think venture-capital funds are overfunded. These funds can't invest all of their money and have high quality [investments]. So it either means they'll lower their quality -- and that could be damaging -- or it means limited partners aren't going to see the returns they want, which is the more likely outcome. 

MARC ANDREESSEN 

Opsware 

Do you agree with Larry Ellison that Silicon Valley, as we know it, is dead? 

Of course not. Larry's a brilliant guy. That said, everything he says has to be filtered through his own self-interest. And you have to take everything with a massive grain of salt -- a boulder of salt. Larry says things like, ``The PC is dead. The Network Computer is going to take over.'' He says things like: ``Internet television is going to be huge.'' All these things Larry said over the years that weren't true, they're all self-interest. 

So in this case, he's got a very interesting situation on his hands. He's got a very large software company where the core franchise, the database business, is a very good business. But he's got big competitors: Microsoft and IBM and now open source. There are some very interesting questions around the future of that business. And he's got a big consulting business, which is fine, but big consulting businesses are hard to differentiate because they all do basically the same thing. And then he's got this applications business that he hasn't really been able to get traction in. 

Have you seen the Next Big Thing? 

Nope. Almost by definition, I won't. When it first emerges, it's likely to look deeply fringe. The people who are involved in the next big cosmic thing probably can't even get a job at Opsware because they're too fringe to work at an established software company. 

PAUL SAFFO 

Institute For The Future 

What's the next technology revolution? 

About every decade, a new technology comes in and resets the landscape. The current decade is being shaped by cheap sensors that connect our devices to the world around us. We're right in the middle of the sensor revolution taking off. In 10 years you're going to walk into a room and assume everything has rudimentary intelligence. People will give their vacuums names because they'll act like living things. Apply this to engines. With sensors, the engine can tell you when it needs to be fixed. The ramifications are breathtaking. 

Are there any obstacles to innovation? 

We've got a couple of gorillas holding back innovation. Microsoft is a big intellectual roach motel. All the big minds go in, and they don't come out. 

Is there any hope for startups today? 

What did the dinosaurs do before they went extinct? They got really big. 

MASAYOSHI SON 

Softbank 

What can the U.S. learn from Asia's boom in broadband? 

The United States has to wake up. The average speed of broadband in the U.S. is one-twentieth of [the speed in] Japan. This is affecting the development of software and advanced technology. The U.S. government should wake up and increase competition. 

Which technologies are most likely to change the way we work and live? 

Broadband. 

Will Silicon Valley play a role in the coming recovery, and what will it be? 

In America, yes, but not in the world. Korea definitely is the center of broadband, and Japan is going to become a center very quickly. The U.S. is falling behind. For the mass production of electronic goods, China is becoming the new center of the world. They will become the producer of the world and become more innovative along the way. 

SCOTT MCNEALY AND BILL JOY 

Sun Microsystems 

Scott, can Silicon Valley rebound with the rest of tech? 

Talking about the future of Silicon Valley isn't really my gig. I'm too busy talking to customers about creating new technology to help engineer complexity out of systems. But think about it, that is what Silicon Valley is all about -- pure innovation, not bound by geography. The only barriers are the ones we create. So it's time to stop talking and start doing. Time to start engineering to address the mammoth systems that have taken over our part of the universe. 

What systems are you referring to? 

Our belief is that everything gets connected to the network. That creates a massively complex problem, and our whole deal is about solving complex networking problems. That creates a $2 billion R&D challenge for us. 

Is this the overarching challenge facing tech? 

Here's my belief: Our industry spends all of its time buying best-of-breed, state-of-the-art, little tiny components, as opposed to buying the car or the airplane. So we go out and buy the landing gear, the avionics, the wing flaps, the tail rudders, each from a different vendor. And then we hire an army of people to try to build a custom airplane. If you look around our industry, no two airplanes are alike. It is unbelievably screwed up. What we're trying to do is engineer that problem away. 

Bill, at Davos recently, you asked: ``What if people have already bought all they need?'' That doesn't bode well for tech. 

Who do you know who doesn't already have a DVD player? My point was, is there enough stuff? Many of the people with disposable income may have more than they can take care of. And there is not much out there to inspire you to buy. 

So where will the industry's growth come from? 

The real growth area is in the different kinds of devices we focused on a decade ago with Java: mobile devices, cellular phones, wireless devices. 

What do you think of the advanced research coming out of universities today? 

Frankly, for the past 20 years, the universities have not been as far ahead as I would have liked. What they are doing is barely research. There were years where Bell Labs and Xerox were doing the innovative stuff. And once that stuff got commercialized, the universities weren't doing stuff that was as radical as it should have been. It's a little ossified. 

Can private sector investment make up the difference? 

The IT sector is large enough that the R&D going on there can make up much of the difference in applied technologies. But for some work -- like breaking the physical laws, like quantum computing work that has no foreseeable payoff -- you need a long-term project for that. That needs to come out of research institutions. It's not as likely to come out of industry research. 

HENNING KAGERMANN 

SAP 

Are corporate buyers skeptical about tech these days? 

It depends on the companies -- whether they were oversold. We had a more conservative approach about the Internet. We never told the clients they had to rip out the old stuff. We did not close $100 million deals on what is now shelfware. Some corporations aren't happy with other tech companies. To some extent, these companies have spoiled the market. 

How do you overcome this? 

There is less confidence, less trust. It's very important for us to behave like a mature industry. So far, we have not. It was not ``client first,'' it was ``us first.'' We have to improve customer relations, make the business case, and not promise anymore that we have the Holy Grail. It's hard work. It's rebuilding the relationship. It's what we do. 

Are you adapting your software for new technologies, such as radio-equipped tags for inventory? 

People are just starting to work with it. We're codeveloping with Procter & Gamble. Ultimately, probably in a year, we'll sell it as a packaged application. 

STEVE JOBS 

Apple Computer, Pixar 

Many tech companies have cut R&D spending because they believe the industry is slowing down. You haven't. Why? 

What has happened in technology over the last few years has been about the downturn, not the future of technology. A lot of companies have chosen to downsize, and maybe that was the right thing for them. We chose a different path. Our belief was that if we kept putting great products in front of [customers], they would continue to open their wallets. And that's what we've done. We've been turning out more new products than ever before, and Apple is one of only two companies making money in the PC business. 

Where has Apple been innovative? 

Look at the iPod [digital music player]. We sold over 300,000 iPods last quarter. Just to put that in perspective, we sold about 750,000 overall units -- so if you look at each of those iPods as a $400 computer, that's a 40% increase in our volume. And it's a whole new product category. 

Are you concerned that your peers lack fresh ideas? 

I look around, and I'm pretty stunned at how many successful young companies I see. I look at eBay and I'm amazed. I look at Google and I'm amazed. These are some pretty good companies in the making, and they're not just one-product companies -- they're real companies. They're already bigger than some of the great entrepreneurial companies of the past. So I think a lot of people got miscalibrated because of the Internet boom. 

The rate of innovation now is not significantly different from what I've seen over the last 20 years, if you take out the Internet craziness. I see a recovery in innovation coming out of this downturn. I see some very strong companies that have been built even in these very tough times. And I see some new sprouts popping up out of universities. I'm an optimist. 

Apple has had early success working with the music industry to create its online music store, iTunes. Do you think the music industry is correct in taking legal action against its customers who pirate music over the Internet? 

Stealing music is not right, and I can understand people being very upset about their intellectual property being stolen. But the stick alone isn't going to work. So we're working on a better product. 

The music industry is based on selling unprotected CDs that can be read on CD players that are as dumb as a rock [and can't detect pirated music]. The right solution is to compete with the Kazaas [music sharing services] of the world and to beat them. And that's what we're trying to make happen. 

JEFF BEZOS 

Amazon.com 

At what stage is the Internet as a technology? 

It's like the early days of electrical appliances. The Internet and the things that will come out of it are around the level of the 1908 Hurley washing machine. The electric outlet had not been invented yet. Nor had the on-off switch. 

What new technology most excites you these days? 

One thing is all the stuff going on in the unlicensed spectrum, the most famous being Wi-Fi. You'll be able to be wirelessly connected the whole time. Anything that lets people be connected more easily to the Internet is great for us. 

What about space travel? You have bankrolled a space startup. 

I'm funding a very early-stage space research company called Blue Origin. We want to try to make it safer and lower-cost for people to go into space. We will be but a small part of a big, challenging, hard technical effort. 

Can Amazon keep getting an edge from technology? 

By building new technologies ourselves, we get to offer a better customer experience. Does that give us an advantage? Absolutely. Now, if we just rest on our laurels, we're not going to enjoy that advantage. You have to continue to innovate. 

JEFF IMMELT 

General Electric 

How important is technology to GE? 

It's a business imperative. We're primarily a service-oriented company, and the lifeblood for productivity is more about tech than it is about investing in plants and equipment. We tend to get a 20% return on tech investments, and we tend to invest about $2.5 billion to $3 billion a year. 

What kind of technology will be key in the future? 

Wireless could have a huge impact. We have an incredible amount of people who work close to the customer -- our salespeople, our service people. Making them more productive is my No.1 priority. Wireless is going to be the key to us. 

JOHN CHAMBERS 

Cisco 

How bright is the future for tech? 

I am an optimist about the future of tech, and I am because of the role it's going to play in terms of our standard of living and productivity. There's wave after wave of applications and new technologies that are going to change fundamental business processes, in ways that people are just starting to imagine. The virtual networked organization will be the most basic change since the assembly line -- except it won't only be for manufacturing, it will apply to all businesses and governments. 

Do you expect tech will keep delivering big productivity gains? 

We're at the early stages of what this productivity can mean. Over five years ago, we said it was possible for a country to grow 2% to 3% a year, and that 3% to 5% was not out of the question. The top economic thinkers and business and government leaders politely said: ``The concept is nice, but not a chance.'' But we knew we could drive our own productivity 10% a year -- and then use that productivity to move into new markets, or to bring it to the bottom line. 

Now most people think 2% to 3% growth is a given. But stopping at 2% to 3% would be a huge mistake. I think we could grow 3% to 5% [and benefit from] the huge standard-of-living implications that go with that. 

When did you start preparing for an upturn? 

We started 2 1/2 years ago. The time you make the changes is before anyone else sees it. There are a lot of advantages to being near a herd, because a herd has 1,000 eyes. But if you're not moving well in advance of the herd, you're in line with the herd's achievements. 

How will this recovery be different from the last one? 

In the 1990s the race was run by constantly driving over 200 mph. Anyone who tapped on the brakes was left behind. Today, it's more like the Tour de France. There's times when you're sprinting, there's times you're in huge turns, there's times when you're going uphill. 

SAM PALMISANO 

IBM 

What are the lessons learned from the bust that will be applied to the recovery and any future boom? 

The biggest lesson is that the customer is now in charge. We're witnessing a major power shift between IT and the rest of business. From now on, the tech companies that succeed will be those that have developed skills at listening and a sophisticated understanding of their customers' industries. 

Don't get me wrong: Technology is still important. IBM isn't investing billions of dollars every year in R&D -- and winning more patents than our top 10 competitors combined for more than a decade -- as an academic exercise. But research is now being driven much more by what people need rather than just by what is possible. 

What's the impact of consolidation on startups and innovation? 

I do have one concern, not about industry consolidation but about possible overreaction to recent corporate excesses. Please understand, I think it's entirely fair for society to impose appropriate oversight, particularly for companies of IBM's size and reach. But when you're a 30-person startup, you may not have the resources for everything that is being contemplated. If we overregulate, overcontrol, impose too many burdens and too much bureaucracy, that could make people risk-averse and dampen the entrepreneurial spirit. 

And it could also knock out of whack a very delicate ecosystem -- among venture capitalists, entrepreneurs, academia, and industry -- that has for decades created enormous innovation and economic growth. We understand the importance of improving governance, but we need the right balance. 

Will the next stage of the Internet be led by the U.S.? 

The U.S. still has an unmatched IT ecosystem, not to mention a national propensity to innovate. There's a strong commitment to technical leadership by the U.S. government. That said, innovation is not an American birthright, and to try and define it that way ignores the realities of global competition for everything from customers to ideas. 

We're moving beyond ``international'' business to something that is more like ``transnational.'' For instance, IBM has 30 software labs around the world. We're global by definition, which creates tremendous advantages for our customers and shareholders and opportunities for top talent [globally]. 

Document BW00000020030818dz8p0001z


More Like This

 Article 308 *******************    



The Future of Tech -- The Technology Road Map

THE QUEST FOR THE NEXT BIG THING; Gadget or service, it may emerge from a global digital nervous system 

By Robert D. Hof 
2,928 words 
25 August 2003
BusinessWeek
90
Number 3846
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Every day on my commute, I pass within yards of a monument to technology's failed dreams. It's a sprawling office complex along Silicon Valley's main highway that once housed Internet portal Excite@Home. Drawn to it one day last year, as if to a haunted house, I parked and tiptoed up to peer inside. Utterly empty. Spooky. I remembered catching glimpses, as I whizzed by at 65 mph, of people bustling inside the green tinted windows, and I wondered where they all went. The collapse in 2001 of Excite@Home ended the bid of what was once a strong contender for tech's Next Big Thing. 

The complex is still empty today. But a few blocks away, another startup has taken residence in Excite's original headquarters. Ingrian Networks is a promising software security startup backed by the high-powered likes of Sun Microsystems Chief Scientist Bill Joy. That set me thinking that technology innovation works a lot like a forest: Fires periodically sweep through, seeming to destroy everything. Yet before long, grasses and wildflowers sprout from the ashes in a timeless cycle of renewal. 

Today, tech is poised between the dying embers of the bust and the first green blush of the upturn. It's in fallow periods like these that the seeds of tomorrow's Microsofts and Ciscos sprout. Out of the deep tech recession in 1985-86 came a burst of new personal-computer applications that recharged a sputtering industry. During the downturn of 1990-91, researcher Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web, which led to the spark of the Internet boom: Netscape Communications' Web browser. Says serial entrepreneur S. Jerrold Kaplan: ``Bad economies are the breeding ground for great leaps in technology.'' 

Sick of writing about losses, layoffs, and liars, I was ready for such a leap. That's why, early last year, I joined thousands of curious researchers, hungry entrepreneurs, intrepid investors, and laid-off tech workers on the elemental quest of techdom. Notebook in hand, gas tank full, eyes wide open, I set out in search of the Next Big Thing. 

My quest led me into every hallway and alleyway of tech. I tracked down entrepreneurs in mansions, cubicles, and garages, flew to Microsoft's gleaming research labs in Redmond, Wash., and probed visionaries coast to coast. In all, I talked to more than 100 people and heard dozens more at industry gatherings. My journey went from the ridiculous to the sublime: One morning, I watched a startup pitch a high-tech contraption to make fertilizer from cow chips. That afternoon, I visited Xerox' legendary Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) and saw computer chips whose microscopic circuits were literally printed using inkjet printers -- a breakthrough that could produce disposable cell phones or ultracheap PCs. 

Did I find the Next Big Thing? Truth be told, not exactly. But maybe, just maybe, I unearthed some trends that seem likely to produce something big. It will spring, I believe, from the proliferation of single-chip computers, tiny sensors, ubiquitous Internet connections, and even new tech-driven social movements envisioned by futurist Howard Rheingold. Together, they're forming a global digital nervous system whose potential impact seems almost limitless. 

Regardless of whether all of that produces a blockbuster product or service anytime soon, my journey itself was the real reward. Sure, it was meandering, often leading down blind alleys. But it shed light on the process of tech innovation and exploded a lot of myths. For one, I discovered that many venture capitalists aren't so much visionary risk takers as sheep in wolves' clothing. No one else can so quickly build on a trend, and so quickly abandon it -- leaving behind mass bankruptcies, layoffs, and a dearth of money for new startups. 

I also learned that even the whizziest technology takes a long time to seep into our lives. GO's handheld computer went nowhere in the early 1990s, for instance, creating one of the Valley's biggest implosions. Yet only a few years later, Palm had a winner, and mobile digital devices of all kinds are among the hottest tech products today. In tech, says Paul Saffo, director of the think tank Institute for the Future, ``it takes 20 years to become an overnight success.'' 

Above all, I was struck by how many people at every stage in the tech development process, from entrepreneurs and researchers to the best VCs and savviest customers, are diving into the fray again. The spirit of innovation lives. 

TOUGH TIMES FOR ENTREPRENEURS. One bright late winter morning last year, I start my search at what seems just the right place: startup incubator Stanford University and its annual Conference on Entrepreneurship. Some 300 students and young startup-wannabes have come to network and attend panels on what's hot and how to raise money. But the real lesson begins after lunch. The keynote speaker is Nolan Bushnell. He's the über-entrepreneur who founded video-game pioneer Atari and Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza Time Theater in the 1970s, plus nearly 20 other startups since. ``Venture capitalists are people looking for innovation -- until they see it,'' he thunders. ``If you have an innovative idea, your chance of getting funding is virtually zero.'' 

Cranky as he is, Bushnell has a point. Great ideas often look trivial to most people. In fact, Harvard Business School Professor Clayton Christensen has noted this pattern among many great technologies. The chip, for instance, started out suitable to run only lowly digital watches but eventually revolutionized all of electronics. Still, Bushnell's latest venture -- kiosks for barflies to play online games -- seems an especially unlikely spark for a revolution. Anyway, I'm looking for less jaded entrepreneurs. 

That's why, a few weeks later, I'm at The Gong Show. Hosted at a Palo Alto hotel by the entrepreneur support group Asia-Silicon Valley Connection, the event lets 12 prescreened startups give presentations to a panel of investors -- two minutes sharp, or a gong rings them off the podium. A couple, including a firm whose technology speeds drug discovery, look promising. The rest deserve (but don't get) an early gong. Lawyer Bob Kohn pitches Laugh.com, which aims to get cell-phone subscribers to pay a buck a month for George Carlin's recorded joke of the day. Isn't cell-phone service enough of a joke already? 

Like the lottery player who hopes the next ticket will be a winner, I keep attending these dog-and-pony shows over the next few months. But I can't find a pony among the dogs. 

INNOVATION INSIDE. It's time to go to the well: the scientists and researchers. Their ideas, after all, are the fount of innovation. AT&T's Bell Labs invented the transistor, and Xerox' PARC designed both the modern PC that Steve Jobs commercialized at Apple Computer and the Ethernet computer network that's the standard today. In early spring, officials at IBM's venerable Almaden Research Center in San Jose, famed for breakthroughs such as the disk drive, invite me to sit in on a presentation to venture capitalists. It's about one of the hottest things around: nanotechnology, the engineering of materials down to the atomic level. 

We take turns using the scanning tunneling microscope in IBM Fellow Don Eigler's lab to move molecules of carbon monoxide around a copper plate. Intriguing: It's proof of a path to overcome the big problem of nano, how to manipulate matter this small. Indeed, IBM would later announce that this technology has allowed them to create the tiniest circuits yet, a development that could keep electronics on its smaller-cheaper path for decades to come. It sounds promising. But nano still feels like the next Next Big Thing -- something that might blossom in 20 years, not two. 

Maybe a place that produced one of the last big things might provide clues to how the next will emerge. That's what sends me to PARC in the hills of Palo Alto late last spring. It has a reputation as a place that invents Next Big Things, such as the PC, but fails to capitalize on them. So I'm surprised when they actually knock my socks off. What grabs me most is a project working with the tiny radio-equipped sensors called smart dust. Right now, the pieces of ``dust'' that PARC Principal Scientist Feng Zhao shows me in his cluttered lab are as big as a matchbox. But in a few years, they may well be shrunk to 1 square millimeter, small enough to deserve their hopeful name. Ultimately, he says, there will be hundreds of times more of these than there are computers on the Internet. ``It will be like a digital skin on the face of the Earth,'' he says. 

For Zhao, that's just the start. His group aims to create a sort of World Wide Web for sensors, because, like computers, they're most useful if they can communicate with one another. With a search engine he calls a ``Google for the physical world,'' a store manager might log on and type in, ``How many rolls of Charmin are left?'' and get an instant answer from the sensor network. They might even be embedded in roads to measure traffic or in building materials to detect flaws. 

It sounds pretty futuristic. Except I later find it's almost here, thanks to a startup called Dust Inc. Founded by Kris Pister, the professor at the University of California at Berkeley who coined the term smart dust, it has just started shipping its first products. Dust's contribution is technology that lets the tiny devices create their own network -- allowing them to pass along data like a bucket brigade, and thus they require very little power and range. It already has sold some to Textron for ground sensors to monitor troop movements and to Honeywell International, which will sell them to supermarkets for monitoring energy use in refrigeration units. Cool. 

It doesn't take me long to realize that most of the groundbreaking research in information technology came from the largesse of monopolies, such as AT&T and Xerox. So it's obvious where to go next: Redmond to visit Microsoft Research. It's spending $100 million on research by some 600 top programmers, engineers, and scientists. When I fly up for a tour, I'm treated to a series of pretty interesting projects. One researcher is creating ways to control computers and electronic devices through gestures. Another group is creating communications systems that seamlessly meld phones, voice mail, instant messaging, and e-mail. 

Yet I can't shake the feeling that most of it will never see the light of day, simply because the research so far hasn't produced a big, disruptive winner. ``It's hard to put a stake in the ground and say Microsoft Research did this really big thing,'' admits Senior Researcher Henrique Malvar. Microsoft Research isn't alone in this. The problem with research projects from corporate labs or universities is that ``they come out of the womb with big heads and little arms and legs,'' says David Liddle, general partner at U.S. Venture Partners and a former PARC veteran who later ran the defunct incubator Interval Research. When I press Rick Rashid, Microsoft's senior vice-president of research, on why Microsoft hasn't been able to bust out and invent something really big, he says that's not their job. ``We need to make sure that when something big does happen, we have the technology to respond to it,'' he says. I know this ``fast follower'' model has served Microsoft well. But I'm looking for something big enough to challenge Windows, not make it even more dominant. 

NOTHING VENTURED, NOTHING GAINED. It's time to meet the folks who put wheels on new ideas: the venture capitalists. Yet when I start my interviews in mid-2002 at the VC enclave of Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, it looks like a ghost town. And when I sit down with Yogen Dalal, a PARC and Apple Computer alumnus who's a managing partner at Mayfield Fund, it turns out he's a little adrift. ``Quite frankly,'' he says, ``I don't think anyone is proposing anything fundamentally new.'' Great. 

Then he launches into a list of things that sound, well, big: He's interested in fledgling computer networks like Cisco Systems' that can host phone calls. He thinks instant messaging will blossom from an Internet party line to something like a digital concierge. And just-emerging voice-activated information services could make Internet services easily available over the phone, anywhere. In fact, I had just met a leader here, Tellme Networks, founded by entrepreneur Mike McCue. But Dalal's just not sure. That's one reason he's about to take a three-month sabbatical to reboot his brain. 

Months later, when I check back with him, it turns out that instead of hitting the labs at U.C. Berkeley, as he had intended, Dalal tracked down old friends and visited art galleries. The break worked: He has funded a new company, PacketHop. Its technology lets people and companies create ad hoc networks by turning any mobile device into a data relay station. It sounds like yet another piece of my puzzle: something that lets people take network technology into their own hands and run with it wherever they will. 

My next encounter with a venture capitalist, however, knocks me down out of the clouds. When famed Sequoia Capital partner Don Valentine, whose wins include Apple and Cisco Systems, returns my call, it's largely to dump on my quest. He thinks tech wrecks like the one we've just experienced are the direct result of amateurs and outsiders he calls ``extraterrestrials'' searching for the Next Big Thing. Still, it's hard to resist asking what he thinks it might be. After a long pause, Valentine finally answers, very slowly, as if to a child: ``I wouldn't tell you that if you were my mother.'' 

THE NEVER-ENDING JOURNEY. Finally, by early fall, after struggling to weave all these threads together, serendipity lends a helping hand. Surfing the Web, I happen upon an article by Howard Rheingold. The veteran tech observer and author has a new book, Smart Mobs: The Next Social Revolution, that links nearly all the things I've been tracking and much more: eBay's community of 30 million-plus buyers and sellers; the runaway song-sharing movement; even al Qaeda's sophisticated use of Internet communications. In all of these, Rheingold sees a new social phenomenon driven by the collision of computing and communications in mobile devices such as digital cell phones and handheld computers. 

In early fall, Rheingold's idyllic backyard garden in Mill Valley, north of San Francisco, presents a stark contrast to the ferment he sees coming. Propping up feet clad in exquisite hand-painted shoes, he says these new devices and services will upset entire industries, from telecom to entertainment, and pave the way for new social institutions. Or at least some pretty big crowds. Activists in the Philippines, for instance, relayed instant text messages via digital cell phones, marshaling hundreds of thousands of people within hours to rallies that toppled President Joseph Estrada. It's not difficult to imagine this same dynamic transforming how companies organize supply chains and how consumers find the best prices on cars. Says Rheingold, who thinks this wave will be as big as the PC and the Net: ``The killer apps of tomorrow will not be hardware or software, but social practices.'' It sounds a little scary. But maybe that's a mark of something big. 

All this hasn't yet jelled into something as fully formed as the chip or the PC or the Web browser. But what I found convinced me there are both new technologies bubbling up that could transform our lives and a hunger by people to use them. To make a real difference, ultimately, technologies must transcend gadgetry and become part of the social fabric. 

By the time I sit down to write, it feels like the tech industry is finally starting to turn around -- and that maybe what I discovered has a chance to produce something big. Indeed, the journey itself made me realize things weren't as dead as they seemed. It's possible the catalyst for tech recoveries is really the collective efforts of these kindred souls, all striving to zero in on what's next. Maybe that quest never really ends. 

Photograph: The killer app of tomorrow, says futurist Howard Rheingold, will not be hardware or software but something he has dubbed ``smart mobs'' PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS BROENING| Photograph: Kris Pister's startup is already shipping early versions of what's being called smart dust -- tiny sensors that pass along data like a bucket brigade PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS BROENING| Photograph: Tellme Networks' Mike McCue foresees a service that would allow you to pick up your phone and issue orders such as ``call my friend Bob'' PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS BROENING ERICMILLETTE.COM| Photograph: Venture capitalist Yogen Dalal is funding a startup that creates ad hoc data networks out of mobile devices PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS BROENING ERICMILLETTE.COM 


Document BW00000020030818dz8p0000q


More Like This

 Article 309 *******************    



The Future of Tech -- The Big Picture

WHY TECH WILL BLOOM AGAIN; Sure, parts of the industry have withered. But that's the way tech works, and new fruit is on the way 

By Robert D. Hof Contributing: Wendy Zellner and Andrew Park in Dallas, Jay Greene in Seattle, and Jim Kerstetter in San Mateo, Calif. 
2,693 words 
25 August 2003
BusinessWeek
64
Number 3846
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

To hear some folks tell it, the information-technology revolution is kaput. The industry that has driven the economy and captured our imaginations for years has peaked for good, insists a chorus of skeptics. It's true that after four decades of 10% annual growth, more than twice the growth rate of the gross domestic product, tech spending has dropped for two straight years. And corporate IT chiefs say they won't increase spending more than 3% this year. Even some of tech's titans are starting to join the dirge. ``This is the new baseline,'' declares Oracle Corp. Chief Executive Lawrence J. Ellison. ``The industry in total will actually shrink.'' The doubts go even deeper than whether the industry will grow again. 

Burned by broken promises and bewildered by a dizzying array of hardware and software that's still underused, corporate buyers are more skeptical than ever. And now, some experts say that IT can no longer provide corporations any more competitive advantage -- or growth -- than such old-standby technologies as electricity. ``A lot of the core things that businesses do have already been automated,'' says Nicholas G. Carr, who ignited a firestorm with an article in the May Harvard Business Review entitled ``IT Doesn't Matter.'' 

Does all this mean that, from here on out, tech will be -- gulp -- boring? Slow-moving? Inconsequential? It's true that some parts of info tech have probably seen their best days. Personal computers are so pervasive that they may not top 4% sales growth in coming years. Ditto servers, and mainstream corporate software may never reach double-digit growth again. Yet we've seen this movie before. The same thing happened to mainframe computers in the 1970s, as buyers flocked to new, cheaper minicomputers from Data General Corp. and Digital Equipment Corp. In the 1980s, minis declined as buyers poured many more billions of dollars into cheaper, more flexible PCs and servers. 

Fact is, tech has always has worked this way. Like Italian mansions built with marble from the Roman Forum, new markets emerge on the foundation of maturing technologies. Lower prices make mass markets out of niche products. And mass markets inevitably mutate and evolve into something unforeseeable. Only by the mid-1990s, when tens of millions of people had PCs, did it make sense to connect them, giving rise to what became the World Wide Web. Today, millions of people have laptops and handheld computers -- thus spurring rapid development of wireless networks. And more than 20 million U.S. homes have broadband connections. As fast Net access takes off, it will spark altogether new ways of using the Internet that we're just beginning to imagine today. 

Simply put, tech hasn't settled down yet. Its days of maturity may be decades away. The IT revolution may share many parallels with previous transformative technologies such as railroads and electricity, but it differs in one key way: The underlying technologies not only aren't slowing down, they're accelerating. Computer-chip performance keeps doubling every 18 months, and disk-drive capacity and Internet-connection speeds are improving even faster. That's spurring new products, from MP3 and DVD players to Web services for corporations, that are disrupting industries from entertainment to health care. Says Intel Corp. Chairman Andrew S. Grove, who has worked in tech for more than 40 years: ``The rate of change in technology is as much today as any time in my experience.'' 

This rapid change also means that the savviest users of technology still have ample means to carve out an edge over laggards. Indeed, the titans of business today, from Dell to Wal-Mart Stores, as well as upstarts such as Amazon.com and JetBlue Airways, owe much of their leadership to using info tech in special ways. Each employs some of the same technologies, whether that's Linux software or servers based on Intel chips. But it's their expertise in deploying and customizing those technologies year after year that gives them a continued competitive advantage. ``Everybody has always had access to the same technology. There's nothing new there,'' says Microsoft Corp. Chairman William H. Gates III. ``The fact is that some companies have taken technology and used it more effectively than others. And the ones that don't use technologies effectively fall behind.'' 

The debate over tech's value has exploded just as the industry is finally on the rebound. From steadying orders and better-than-expected profits to the rise of promising technologies such as the wireless Internet, Linux software, and digital entertainment, tech's long winter is thawing. For the first half of the year, corporate tech spending rose 4%, according to preliminary economic data. 

But let's be clear: There will be no return to the frothy foolishness of the boom. With the weak economy, global unrest, and lingering skepticism by buyers, tech spending will probably recover to a modest 6% or so next year, and just shy of its 10% historical average in 2005. The biggest problem: Many IT buyers refuse to purchase anything that won't guarantee a return in six months. ``There's a big backlash against technology and a lot of skepticism about what it can do,'' says technology consultant and author John Hagel III. 

In stark contrast to the boom, nowadays the customer is in the driver's seat, and tech companies must come to grips with this reality. This suggests a bracing shift in industry economics and company behavior. Partly, it's that lower prices will give customers more of tech's benefits -- and profits. To accommodate these value-conscious customers, producers must focus even more narrowly on what they do best and outsource the rest to lower-cost providers. Companies increasingly rely on contract manufacturers such as Flextronics International Ltd. and Solectron Corp. to do the heavy lifting. And the process is picking up speed as companies start to farm out basic design and programming tasks as well to lower-paid workers in India and elsewhere. 

Just as important in this new post-frenzy period, tech suppliers no longer can act like door-to-door salesmen, making quick deals and skipping town. Instead, they need to be craftspeople, plumbers, teachers, and insurers, too -- slowing down, fixing software bugs and hardware glitches before shipping products out the door, and guaranteeing that their products play well with others. Says W. Brian Arthur, an economist at the think tank Santa Fe Institute: ``The main beneficiaries will be the Wal-Marts and the General Foods -- the overall economy.'' 

A raft of new technologies hints at the promise. As everything from the transistor radio to the PC to the cell phone has shown, technologies that attract entirely new waves of customers are the key to tech's renewal. And they do it by making tech not just cheaper but also much easier to use. Wireless networks, for instance, are extending the Web to the wide world by cutting our electronic leashes. Networks of tiny sensors give us a digital view into the physical world, allowing inventory to be tracked precisely and ultimately producing digital products that are much smarter, such as home-security systems that recognize family and friends. And corporate IT wizards are hard at work trying to make software available as Web services. The hope, ultimately, is that they can offer computing like a utility, as easy to tap as power from a socket. 

Getting there will be a wrenching process for everyone involved. Success and even survival in this new era will require big shifts in strategy by startups and giants alike. The largest and strongest may survive dwindling margins and slower sales by building huge economies of scale: Think Hewlett-Packard's purchase of Compaq, Oracle's hostile pursuit of PeopleSoft, and Dell's solitary romp through the computer industry. At the same time, many tech companies will have to adopt brand-new business models. Software makers, for instance, will have to switch from shipping shrink-wrapped boxes to providing services over the Net. 

The economy depends on the tech industry getting this right and recharging its growth. Up to 10% of the gross domestic product comes from tech, which accounts for nearly 50% of all capital spending. Many economists believe IT's productivity benefits fueled much of the prosperity of the 1990s, so it's crucial that advances keep coming for our standard of living to improve. 

Trouble is, obstacles abound. Tech's finance infrastructure remains a mess, with venture capitalists awash in money but timid about investing it in new ideas. Just 15% of venture capital has gone to early-stage companies this year, compared with 35% in 1995. Maybe you can't blame them: Corporate customers are wary of buying technology from startups that may not survive. Legal and regulatory issues dog such potential growth markets as digital entertainment. Record companies and movie studios claim they lose up to $5.6 billion from illegal file-sharing and digital copying. And heightened fears about security and privacy could easily put the brakes on adoption of new digital technologies. According to the FBI, reports of Net fraud tripled last year, to 48,000 cases. In short, it's a mine field (page 114). 

As disruptive as these transitions are, they're nothing new for tech. From the steam engine to the automobile, every technological revolution has suffered such cyclical downturns. Yet according to Carlota Perez, author of Technological Revolutions and Financial Capital: The Dynamics of Bubbles and Golden Ages, they don't mark the end of a revolution. Invariably, they set the stage for the longest periods of growth -- the true economic golden ages lasting roughly two more decades beyond the crash. 

The last tech age, the mass manufacturing revolution led by the auto, offers close parallels to info tech today. As the price of cars plummeted early last century, sales rocketed. The number of cars sold tripled between 1919 to 1929. But financial speculation following autos' ``installation period'' got out of hand during the Roaring Twenties, leading to what Perez calls the ``turning-point recession'': the Great Depression. Today, that turning point is the recession, albeit less severe, sparked by the telecom and dot-com meltdowns. 

This is where the comparisons become most striking. Continuing low prices driven by manufacturing efficiencies, plus plenty of cheap oil, pushed car sales up well before the Depression was over. Sales rose more steeply after World War II and through the 1960s -- the golden age of the automobile. Today, tech still has its equivalent of cheap oil: the relentless march of greater chip density at lower costs, plus even faster jumps in storage capacity and the accelerating spread of fast Net access. ``Steam engines and electricity went through one big wave of improvement -- and not even one as big as the one for IT,'' says economist Eric Brynjolfsson of Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ``IT keeps improving, year over year, exponentially.'' 

Those improvements are starting to bring tech buyers out of hiding. JetBlue Airways Corp. has invested in a new technology called ``voice over IP,'' which lets corporate data networks handle phone traffic using Internet protocols. That allows its reservation operators to take customer calls from home -- and not just to save on office costs. ``They're a happier, more motivated, more loyal workforce,'' says CEO David G. Neeleman. As a result, he says, JetBlue's call-center attrition rate is just 5%, vs. 30% industrywide. That's helping JetBlue earn industry-leading profit margins of 19% (page 144). 

Buyers also are getting excited about newly emerging technologies that promise to make their operations more efficient. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is making a big investment in radio-frequency identification (RFID) chips, which will allow it and its suppliers to track goods all the way from the factory to the checkout counter. Such tracking is expected to reduce theft and other losses, cut the number of people in warehouses and stores who must track goods, and boost sales by making sure no item is out of stock. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. estimates that by 2007, Wal-Mart alone could boost earnings 38% by using RFID widely. ``It's a great example of where a pretty proven technology has a potential to have a huge impact,'' says Wal-Mart Chief Information Officer Linda Dillman. 

Most promising are new technologies that appeal to the digital unwashed, potentially tech's greatest opportunity in the years to come. Less than 12% of the world's population has a PC, and, even with Net-connected cell phones and Internet cafés, just 13% are on the Web. One example of the new products: smart phones that are in every way computers, with Web connections and cameras. Gartner Dataquest expects revenues from such products to jump 140% this year, to $4.9 billion. Indeed, consumers can't seem to get enough technology. Some of the fastest-growing new markets are consumer products, from DVD players to MP3 players. Says Roger B. McNamee, veteran tech investor with Silver Lake Partners: ``The consumer has gone from being a marginal opportunity to being a huge opportunity [for tech].'' 

To take advantage of these new opportunities, however, tech companies must reinvent themselves -- fast. Instead of applying the advances of silicon, storage, and network economics to hiking performance on existing products for the same old customers, they must turn those forces to making products, existing and new, that are cheaper. That's a tough transition. 

Intel, for instance, is struggling to reconcile the billions of dollars it spends each year on chip factories with the fact that many customers don't need PCs with the latest chip. So it's aiming at entirely new markets, such as cell phones, handheld computers, and networking gear, whose much larger volume could make up for their lower profitability. Those three markets alone are a potential $45 billion opportunity, reckons market watcher Precursor Group Advisors LLC, compared with $25 billion for PC and server chips. It also has vowed to give each chip wireless capabilities, hoping to ride that wave. 

All the way up tech's value chain, it's the same story. As its PC-software business slows, Microsoft is moving beyond its mainstay corporate market into new fields such as video-game players. That's increasingly forcing it to become a different company, selling not just bits on disks but machines and multimedia programming. 

The pain of existing tech suppliers, however, is the gain of startups. Newcomers with solid technology, from Salesforce.com Inc. and its software-as-online-service to Google Inc. and its ace search engine, are still getting venture money and even eyeing IPOs. There are also huge opportunities in new IT services, suggests Intel's Grove. Just as Ross Perot created a multibillion dollar services business in Electronic Data Systems Corp., Grove thinks startups could emerge to run legitimate file-sharing operations for entertainment companies or medical databases. Particularly promising is that startups are getting funding for risky new technologies such as nanotechnology and biomechanical livers (page 106). 

This constant renewal is the essence of tech. It was in the last big tech downturn, in 1985-86, that some of today's titans got rolling -- Dell, for one. Today, Dell dominates PCs, with sales having risen 14% last year, to $35.4 billion. Founder Michael S. Dell's view today? ``There's no shortage of new ideas and new technology coming. The evolution of technology is showing no signs of maturing whatsoever.'' The industry may well require more steady leadership in the difficult years to come. But for tech to remain a vital part of the economy, its leaders must make sure they don't slow down as they grow up. 

Illustration: Chart: Tech Branches Out| Illustration: Chart: Why Tech Will Rise Again 


Document BW00000020030818dz8p0000l


More Like This

 Article 310 *******************    



Bets Are On Again --- From Wi-Fi to Face Lifts, Ideas of High-Tech Start-Ups Lure Some Venture Capitalists 

2,424 words 
28 August 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
B1 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

AS venture capitalists show renewed interest in start-ups, certain fields are attracting particular notice. Below is a look at some companies in five of these fields. 

Alternative Energy 

Concerns about U.S. reliance on oil imports -- and problems such as the recent blackout -- have sparked new interest in energy ideas. Konarka Technologies Inc., whose name refers to a temple in India dedicated to a sun god, is developing plastic sheeting that rolls out to transform sunlight into electricity. 

Konarka, based in Lowell, Mass., believes the flexible material will allow for less expensive and more efficient solar, or photovoltaic, cells. The company sees the possibility for lightweight portable power packs, or energy-storing plastic roll-out tarps -- as a way to generate electricity in remote areas. 

The U.S. Army was interested enough to pump $100,000 into Konarka's coffers this month. The state of Massachusetts also has backed the company, with $1.5 million. In June, Konarka closed a second, $6.5 million round of funding with a group led by Draper Fisher Jurvetson, a Redwood City, Calif., venture-capital firm, bringing the total amount raised to about $18 million, the company says. Konarka's technology will help push the solar cells into the mainstream market, says Raj Atluru, a DFJ managing director. 

Split out of the University of Massachusetts Center for Advanced Materials five years ago, the company bases its technology on tiny, dye-sensitized crystals of titanium dioxide, a semiconductor that absorbs the sun's energy and can be coated on flexible plastic sheets or metal foils. The light stimulates the crystals, which creates electricity. 

Most existing photovoltaic, or PV, cells are built using crystalline silicon, which requires expensive processing. While costs for such panels have come down in recent years, the industry still is looking for a breakthrough that will make solar power price-competitive with other forms of energy. 

"There is still a lot of debate as to how the solar PV industry will unfold," says Ron Pernick, president of Clean Edge Inc., a San Francisco research company that tracks the industry. "These newer, disruptive technologies offer promise but still have development cycles to go through." 

Two other start-ups -- Nanosys Inc. and NanoSolar Inc., both in Palo Alto, Calif. -- also are using plastics in an effort to manufacture more durable, efficient, inexpensive and flexible solar-power cells. Like Konarka, both are taking advantage of nanotechnology -- new techniques for manipulating materials that are measured in nanometers, or billionths of a meter. 

With $38 million in funding, Nanosys is making other products, such as chemical and biological sensors. It says its photovoltaic cells, which it estimates will be on the market in 2006, will be able to generate solar power at less than $1 per watt, comparable to the cost of traditional sources for generating electricity, such as fossil fuels. 

NanoSolar, with $6.5 million from investors that include U.S. Venture Partners and Benchmark Capital, is using a slightly different approach to make thinner solar plastic sheeting, which it says will result in even more efficient and reliable solar cells on the market in 2005. 

Konarka says it will enter the market with a photovoltaic cell in late 2004; it says its cell will generate solar power at around $2 per watt, but the company hopes to achieve lower costs. "If we can get below $1 per watt, we can change the industry," says Chairman Howard Berke. 

Medical Devices 

Some people may balk at sticking their foreheads under a microwave-like probe to whack off wrinkles. But Thermage Inc. of Hayward, Calif., believes the approach is less invasive than a surgical knife and bound to appeal to aging baby boomers. 

Developed eight years ago by a California plastic surgeon, Edward Knowlton, the hourlong Thermage procedure uniformly delivers radio frequency pulses to underlying collagen tissue at the same time an icy cryogen spray prevents the epidermis, or top layer of skin, from being burned. 

The technique has been used before in medicine to cauterize and shrink tissue during heart and spinal surgery. Dr. Knowlton says the pulsation causes submicroscopic wounds to the skin; when they heal, the underlying skin tightens and lifts. Doctors who have used the procedure say results can take months to develop as the skin heals -- a benefit for those who don't want to admit to cosmetic work. 

The Thermage system, consisting of a $40,000 laser-type machine and a disposable $200 probe, won Food and Drug Administration approval for use on the forehead in November 2002. So far, it has sold 330 units and hopes to turn a profit in the fourth quarter. The price of the procedure depends on the doctor, but Thermage estimates it is $1,500 to $2,000 for a forehead. 

The procedure has been tried on hundreds of patients, and some doctors are testing it beyond the forehead. Ronald L. Moy, president-elect of the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery, says he has tried the procedure on the foreheads, cheeks, jowls, necks and stomachs of about 160 patients with varying results. On some, Dr. Moy says, results have been "remarkable." On others, the procedure has had little effect. 

Dr. Moy says Thermage is the first company to apply this technology to dermatologic surgery. Dr. Knowlton, who says he has tested the system on himself, adds that the procedure is designed to complement other cosmetic techniques such as laser resurfacing. The company reports some side effects including redness, swelling and, occasionally, an uneven dimpling effect. "It can be painful," Dr. Knowlton says, so doctors use a topical anesthetic. 

Dermatologists say they are cautiously optimistic that Thermage is onto something, at least for "younger" people between 33 and 55 who just need a touch up. Long-term effects are unknown and there is the danger of burn injuries if the procedure is done improperly. Results are expected to last five to 10 years. 

Michael S. Kaminer, an assistant professor of dermatology at Yale Medical School, has tried the Thermage procedure for a year on about 100 patients. Repercussions have been minimal -- swelling and, occasionally, skin irregularities. The procedure needs further study to determine full benefits and long-term effects, he says, but adds: "It gives us the ability to do something [previously] only achievable with surgery." 

Gary Shaffer, a general partner at Morgenthaler Ventures, a Menlo Park, Calif., venture-capital firm, was impressed enough to place a $10 million bet on Thermage. He isn't the only one turning to medical devices; funding in that sector rose 54% in the second quarter. 

Wireless Networking 

If any sector is bubbling up, it is wireless Internet access, an area that has captured 22% of venture-capital dollars invested this year. One company that has attracted special attention is Vivato Inc. of San Francisco. 

Vivato makes a switching device and an antenna for extending the range of the most popular wireless technology, known as Wi-Fi, from about 110 yards to about 2 1/2 miles. A network powered by Vivato could inexpensively cover a corporate or university campus, or even a residential neighborhood, Vivato says. 

Started in Spokane, Wash., by a team of former Agilent Technologies and Hewlett-Packard engineers, the three-year-old company has amassed a $67 million war chest and says it turned away investors who wanted to give even more. Vivato closed a third funding round of $44.5 million in June, with backing from Advanced Technology Ventures and Intel Capital, the venture arm of chip company Intel Corp. Intel, hoping to spur demand for portable computers, added wireless technology to a set of chips called Centrino and says it has added at least 15 Wi-Fi related start-ups to its portfolio in the past 18 months. 

Vivato recently began shipping its product, a switch that is priced at $9,000 for indoor use and $14,000 for outdoor use. Customers include Indiana University, Florida State University and Freeman Decorating Inc., a Dallas convention contractor that bought six switches to use inside convention halls. 

Vivato faces competition from other start-ups, such as Aruba Networks and Trapeze Networks, which are setting similar goals but using different methods. Aruba, based in San Jose, Calif., which emphasizes Wi-Fi security, has raised $9.5 million in venture funding and just closed a large second round that will be announced in September. Trapeze, a Pleasanton, Calif., company, recently closed a $34 million funding round. 

Despite skeptics who say that Wi-Fi is overfunded and overhyped, there are believers like Dennis M. diBattista, president of QGO LLC, a high-speed communications company in Pawtucket, R.I. 

This summer, Mr. diBattista joined an Internet service provider to attach a Vivato switch to a hotel in nearby Newport, setting up a "hot zone" that spanned a good part of Narragansett Bay. Mr. DiBattista signed up 55 customers, mostly summer visitors and members of the boating crowd. "They check their e-mail on the boat," he says. 

Business Services 

Fewer trends are hotter, or more contentious, than shifting technical jobs from the industrialized world to lower-cost countries. But 24/7 Customer, Los Gatos, Calif., is determined to help the outsourcers. 

The three-year old start-up provides call centers for corporations needing technical support and telemarketing. The company has 2,000 employees -- soon to be 3,000 -- in two centers in Hyderabad and Bangalore, India, who answer the phones for 24/7's customers. 

The company uses a combination of proprietary and off-the-shelf technology to wring delays, static and echoes out of phone calls that may originate in a U.S. state and are bounced to one of two U.S. networking centers on the East and West Coasts before winding up in India, where the calls are answered and problems solved. The company also uses voice-compression technology to fit more phone calls into the space an uncompressed call would take, says Sudhakar Kosaraju, 24/7's 30-year-old, Harvard-educated co-founder. 

An even bigger selling point, Mr. Kosaraju says, is a proprietary network the company established to allow customer-service managers in Manhattan or London to track performance in India from their home bases. Telemarketers, for example, could check how many sales one of 24/7's agents is making per hour. In customer-service applications, the customers can monitor how long it takes to answer each call and how often calls are bumped up to a superior. "Like a NASA control center, they know what's happening and whether they should be asking questions," Mr. Kosaraju says. 

Since launching, the company says it has signed up 10 big companies that outsource tasks like technical support and help desks. The company says it expects to hit its profit target of $30 million for fiscal year 2004. 

Michael Mortiz, a partner at Sequoia Capital, says his firm took the lead in a $22 million round of funding in the start-up. Sequoia has invested in a variety of service companies, including contract manufacturer Flextronics International Ltd. Mr. Moritz says outsourcing "is a very vibrant place to invest, and 10 years from now people will wonder about companies that operate call-centers in-house." 

In addition to expanding its work force, 24/7 plans to use the money to acquire competitors, of which there are many. Besides competition, the company faces growing fears of more U.S. jobs moving offshore in the current tough economy. Mr. Kosaraju says the company was asked by several of its customers -- a major U.S. bank and a major U.S. package-delivery service, for instance -- to sign nondisclosure agreements, fearing negative publicity. "Especially with the economy the way it is, many have requested these relationships stay confidential," Mr. Kosaraju says. 

Video Chips 

Investors in four-year-old Pixim Inc. in Mountain View, Calif., are hoping to get a double bang for their bucks, exploiting computer chips and security. The company, which raised a fourth funding round of $22 million in the spring, has nearly $60 million in the bank and is poised to ship products this fall. 

Spun out of Stanford University, Pixim makes chips designed to produce much sharper digital video, for use in high-end security cameras and other applications.The technology works much as the human eye and brain do, adjusting for glare and lighting, says the company's executive vice president, Rob Siegel. 

Pixim plans to sell a set of two chips: a sensor that captures light and an image processor. The concept is for every picture element that makes up a digital image -- known as a pixel -- to be individually exposed with light. Previous technology doused each pixel equally. As they adjust to different levels of light, the pictures are neither overexposed nor underexposed. 

The company is part of a wave of chip start-ups that have moved into the world of digital images. Some, like Foveon Inc. of Santa Clara, Calif., have capitalized on digital still cameras; others, following in the lead of Nvidia Corp., synthesize three-dimensional graphics for videogames and the like. "These companies have an opportunity to pick off niches of the semiconductor market," says Mark Edelstone, an industry analyst with Morgan Stanley. 

Pixim chips could be used in consumer products such as cellphones that display pictures. But the company decided security was the best way to secure its financial bearings -- and that was before Sept. 11. "It came down to which market could we educate faster," says Chief Executive Bob Weinschenk. "Given the economy, the consumer market was questionable. It still is." 

Pixim says it has signed up six customers, including several leaders in the security-camera market General Electric Co.'s GE Interlogix Inc., Austin, Texas; Pelco, Clovis, Calif.; EverFocus Electronics Corp., Duarte, Calif; and Baxall, Colorado Springs, Colo. 

Bill Unger, a partner at Mayfield, which has put about $18 million behind the company, says he didn't initially back Pixim as a security play but because its technology offered a higher-quality alternative to chips made by Sony Corp. and Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.'s Panasonic. 

Pixim hopes to see its chips used in a range of devices -- including safety cameras in cars, facial-recognition systems and even cameras for making video entertainment. There is a connection: Filmmaker Francis Ford Coppola is a member of Pixim's advisory board. 

(See related article: "Bets Are On Again" -- WSJ Aug. 28, 2003) 

Document j000000020030828dz8s0002p


More Like This

 Article 311 *******************    



Small-Stock Focus: Nutrition 21 Soars as Russell Hits 15-Month Peak 

By Cynthia Schreiber 
Dow Jones Newswires 
918 words 
29 August 2003
The Wall Street Journal 
C8 
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- The Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks reached a 15-month peak as oil-related issues and retailing shares led small-caps higher. 

Oil-drilling and equipment stocks were the session's top percentage gainers amid a moderate rise in crude-oil futures. McDermott International advanced 50 cents, or 11%, to $5, Input/Output climbed 25 cents, or 5.8%, to 4.55, and Superior Energy Services gained 38 cents, or 3.7%, to 10.66, all on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Meanwhile, the retailing group received a boost from reports of higher profits at large-caps Chico's FAS and Dollar General. American Eagle Outfitters rose 61 cents, or 3.6%, to 17.40, and Children's Place Retail Stores added 65 cents, or 3.6%, to close at 18.90. 

Gottschalks (NYSE) jumped 38 cents, or 15%, to 2.94, on top of an 8.9% gain on Wednesday, after the Fresno, Calif., department-store chain reported break-even second-quarter results late Tuesday. The figures contrast with a net loss of 17 cents a share a year earlier. 

But Deb Shops fell 1.29, or 6.6%, to 18.40, after the teen-clothing retailer said second-quarter per-share net income dropped to 20 cents from 52 cents a year earlier amid a 4.8% sales decline. The Philadelphia concern also lowered its profit and sales forecasts for the year. 

After a higher start, small stocks drifted lower early in the day before resuming their upward climb. Numbers on second-quarter economic growth and weekly jobless claims were positive, while end-of-month portfolio rejiggering also helped lift small names, said John Gillette, a senior trader at Lazard. "An uptick in the economy is going to benefit smaller stocks before it feeds through to the larger stocks," he added. 

The Russell 2000 Index of small stocks closed at a 15-month high after adding 4.88, or 0.99%, to close at 495.81. The Standard & Poor's SmallCap 600 Index rose 2.88, or 1.2%, to 242.66, just shy of its 15-month high of 243.48, hit on Aug. 21. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Composite Index of large- and small-cap stocks climbed 18.05, or 1.01%, to 1800.18, another 16-month high. 

Nutrition 21 more than doubled, rising 69 cents to 1.22, after the Purchase, N.Y., nutritional-products firm said a study showed that patients with Type 2 diabetes showed less resistance to insulin injections if they also were given chromium picolinate, a product the company markets. 

Correctional Services, the Sarasota, Fla., manager of correctional facilities, sank 49 cents, or 16%, to 2.61, after saying a Texas jury returned a $35 million verdict against it in a wrongful-death suit. 

Gold stocks were the session's worst performers. On the Big Board, Stillwater Mining shed 12 cents, or 1.7%, to 6.85, and Meridian Gold eased seven cents, or 0.5%, to 13.55. 

Auto-parts suppliers eked out a moderate gain, but Superior Industries (NYSE) skidded 2.07, or 4.6%, to 42.75, after the company said it expects third-quarter per-share earnings of 40 cents, which trails Wall Street's target of 62 cents. Tower Automotive dropped four cents, or 1%, to 4.14, while ArvinMeritor edged up four cents, or 0.2%, to 18.33, both on the NYSE. 

An upgrade pushed Nordson up 75 cents, or 3.1%, to 25.14, which helped lift the factory-equipment group. Baird raised its rating on the stock to "outperform" from "neutral," citing indications of an emerging recovery in the industrial sector. 

Consumer-services issues rose, buoyed by Apollo's positive earnings and revenue outlook. Sylvan advanced 67 cents, or 2.4%, to 28.57, and Learning Tree added 29 cents, or 1.7%, to 16.99. 

Progress Financial soared 9.99, or 59%, to 26.95, as FleetBoston Financial agreed to buy the Blue Bell, Pa., bank for $211 million, or $27.74 a share. 

Oneida (NYSE) tumbled 59 cents, or 9.6%, to 5.55, after the Oneida, N.Y., flatware maker posted a second-quarter net loss of 23 cents a share, in contrast with net income of 17 cents a share a year earlier, as sales declined 7%. 

LTX jumped 2.56, or 21%, to 14.99, after the Westwood, Mass., semiconductor-equipment maker said its fourth-quarter net loss narrowed to $1.61 a share from $1.84 a share a year earlier. SoundView Technology Group raised its investment opinion on the stock to "outperform" from "neutral" and increased its price target to $18 from $7.50. 

Nanophase Technologies vaulted 1.80, or 47%, to 5.60, after the Romeoville, Ill., firm announced the commercial availability of bismuth oxide nanomaterials. Bismuth oxide is added to polymers and materials for bone implants, dental prosthetic devices, and surgical instruments to make them detectable by X-rays without the toxicity associated with other heavy metals, the company said. 

Visx (NYSE), a Santa Clara, Calif., developer of laser vision-correction systems, shed 1.23, or 5.8%, to 19.83, on word rival Bausch & Lomb received an approvable letter from the Food and Drug Administration for a competing laser system for eye surgery. A Bausch & Lomb representative wasn't available to comment on the speculation. 

Document j000000020030829dz8t00010


More Like This

 Article 312 *******************    



Science & Technology: RESEARCH

A HOTHOUSE FOR BIOTECH; Once-humble UC San Francisco is an innovation machine 

By Cliff Edwards in San Francisco 
2,111 words 
8 September 2003
BusinessWeek
102
Number 3848
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

For Cynthia J. Kenyon, the secret to a long, healthy life is in the genes. That's what she concluded after 10 arduous years spent isolating and analyzing some of the 19,000 genes of a microscopic roundworm. The University of California, San Francisco biochemist announced in early July that a single gene known as daf-2 dictates the behavior of other genes that control cellular-stress responses. When altered through a process of chemical mutation, that lone gene keeps the others functioning normally -- helping the body resist the wear and tear of aging. The worm's lifespan doubles, and by all appearances, it is healthier than other worms half its age. 

Dorian Gray, the worm, is just the beginning. Scientists elsewhere have duplicated Kenyon's results in fruit flies and mice, shedding light on some of the fundamental questions about why and how living things age. Because humans share many genes and much basic biochemistry with lesser animals, such work may provide clues to creating a fountain-of-youth pill or injection. And even if 50-year-olds don't end up looking like college kids, this line of inquiry could spawn novel treatments for heart disease, Huntington's disease, and certain cancers associated with aging. 

Kenyon credits the school that has backed her research. ``There's a goodly amount of brains here,'' she says, ``and the university provides the brawn.'' Indeed, if any team of researchers seems positioned to crack the mysteries of aging, it's the UCSF network of students, staff, and alums. Once little more than a good regional medical institution in an agriculture-focused state school system, UCSF has become a world-class showcase for biomedical innovation. Its achievements and culture have attracted both faculty and funding on a scale few other medical-research schools have been able to match. 

The concentration of brainpower defies simple enumeration. Down one hall is the lab of Stanley B. Prusiner, the 1997 Nobel Prize winner who discovered prions, the infectious agents that cause mad cow disease. In an office across the street is J. Michael Bishop, who shared a 1989 Nobel Prize with UCSF alum and former faculty member Harold E. Varmus for the discovery of genes that cause normal cells to become cancerous. The faculty boasts 30 members of the prestigious National Academy of Sciences, and professors have been involved in upwards of 60 biotechnology spin-offs. These include industry pioneers Genentech, Chiron, Geron, and Scios, which Johnson & Johnson acquired this past April for $2.4 billion. 

Step off the campus, and the stewardship of America's top scientific institutions seems to be in the hands of UCSF graduates and former faculty. A short list includes Julie Gerberding, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Bruce Alberts, head of the National Academy of Sciences; Surgeon General Richard Carmona -- and, of course, Varmus, who ran the National Institutes of Health and is now president of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. 

The UCSF medical mafia is just one manifestation of the institution's growing presence. The university has an uncanny ability to attract funds. For five years running, it has outshone most other universities in numbers of NIH research grants. With a $365 million tally last year, it surpassed every school nationwide except Johns Hopkins University, the University of Pennsylvania, and the University of Washington, exceeding rivals such as Harvard and Stanford in postgraduate grants. 

Private donations, meanwhile, have topped $200 million every year since 1999. In the past year alone, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation awarded $28 million for research into AIDS prevention in Africa. And Intel Corp. Chairman Andrew S. Grove offered $1.5 million in donations and $5 million in matching grants for research in stem cells. UCSF is one of the few U.S. institutions pursuing work in these controversial cells, which are often harvested from embryos and can mature into any tissue of the body. ``It's fitting to use some of the money that came from the previous tech revolution to help fund the next one,'' Grove says. 

In some regards, UCSF's academic achievement seems almost accidental. Unlike Stanford or Harvard -- and not by any particular plan -- the institution has no undergraduate schools or athletic programs that compete for funding. So wealthy donors never have to listen to more than one fund-raising pitch. But sharp strategic thinking also helped turn the campus into a research powerhouse. Starting in 1968, administrators devised radical, collaborative approaches to research, and these methods quickly attracted some of the brightest minds. 

That's not to say that UCSF outshines other distinguished research centers such as Harvard, Yale, or Johns Hopkins. ``The Eastern institutions are doing just fine,'' says Varmus. Nevertheless, notes alum Marv Cassman, former head of General Medical Science at the NIH: ``There are just a few institutions in the country that compete for top talent, and UCSF is one of them.'' 

For the research staff at UCSF, the monumental goal is to churn out a scientific discovery a week across a variety of fields and disciplines. Administrators believe that will require a major upgrade of the physical environment. The institution is in the first phase of a 15-year, $1.5 billion building boom, the largest university expansion in the country. A 43-acre second campus called Mission Bay is rising south of downtown San Francisco, replacing old railyards and abandoned warehouses with state-of-the-art research facilities. Here, scientists will combine physical science and biology with intense computational research to study some of the most complex biological processes -- such as how the body's genes, hundreds of thousands of proteins, and chemical signals interact with one another and with pathogens in the genesis of disease. This work could lead to new drug-development strategies as well as insights on disease management and prevention. 

For most of its history, UCSF seemed an unlikely place for creating radical change. As late as the 1960s, it was known mostly for competently providing clinical care to the public through San Francisco's general hospital. Fundamental research was little more than a dream. But the mission changed under the influence of Bill Rutter, who ran the department of biophysics and biochemistry. Hired in 1969 to head UCSF's modest chemistry department, Rutter institutionalized the practice of collaborative research on a grand scale. Eschewing the traditional department concept, Rutter believed the best way to encourage discovery was by grouping researchers who shared a common interest instead of lumping specialties together by department. These so-called neighborhoods might include chemists working side by side with mathematicians and biologists. 

It was in Rutter's own lab that a hepatitis B viral gene was cloned and inserted into a bacterium, leading to the hepatitis B vaccine -- the first recombinant human vaccine ever produced. ``For more than three decades, the university has invested unflinchingly in collaborative biomedical research,'' says David A. Kessler, former head of the Food & Drug Administration who in June was named UCSF's new dean of the School of Medicine. 

The university's strength in genetic research has helped transform modern medicine. Scientist Herbert W. Boyer's 1973 work on techniques for altering DNA led directly to the synthesis of insulin, human growth hormones, and hemophilia medicine. The biotech revolution was under way, and Boyer went on to co-found Genentech Inc. 

Three years later, Varmus and Bishop discovered that a gene that directs normal cell growth, if it mutates, can promote the uncontrolled growth of cancer. The discovery of these so-called oncogenes turned cancer research on its ear by establishing how the growth of cancerous cells can be triggered by exposure to a carcinogen, such as radiation or smoke. More than 100 oncogenes have since been identified, opening the door to a variety of cancer treatments aimed at activating or shutting them off at the right times. Bishop now serves as chancellor of UCSF, spearheading the Mission Bay expansion. ``The reason we've been so successful is that there's open discussion and a totally unfettered exploration of the question 'what if?''' Bishop says. 

The string of discoveries attracted powerful friends. Venture capitalists, many of them in the Bay Area, jumped at the chance to fund UCSF's many spin-offs. And when the landlocked university considered moving out of San Francisco in 1996 because researchers were working out of closets and reclaimed bathrooms, Gap Inc. Chairman Donald Fisher, investment banker Sanford Robertson, and the mayor's office struck a deal with the commercial developer that owned the 303-acre Mission Bay property to offer part of it -- worth $70 million -- for free. ``These are enormously important research facilities, and we wanted to do everything we could to keep them here,'' says Rudolf Nothenberg, former chief administrative officer for the city. 

The university also doubles as an incubator for promising scientists. Senior faculty scour the world for young researchers, graduate students, and postdoctoral candidates who might thrive in this cross-disciplinary hothouse. ``The place is crawling with people who could be off on their own little ego adventures because they're that good, but they see the value of talking with each other,'' says Keith R. Yamamoto, chairman of the Cellular & Molecular Pharmacology Dept. 

The can-do attitude helps win converts. For instance, when the CDC was struggling to classify the SARS virus, it turned to a young UCSF scientist, Joe DeRisi. Months earlier, DeRisi had imprinted samples of all 12,000 viral gene sequences known to science on a single slide. Called a DNA microarray, it relied on the laws of nature, meaning that any virus applied to the slide would gravitate toward a like virus. DeRisi and a research assistant took just 12 hours using a PC and fluorescent microscope to confirm that SARS was closely related to a bird virus but merited a new classification all its own. Discovering the AIDS virus, by contrast, took many years. ``What we did obviously wasn't that novel, except we did it quickly,'' DeRisi says. 

UCSF's newest challenge is marrying such technology with more basic research. Genomics, proteomics, nanotechnology, and other fields that probe the fundamental interaction of individual proteins -- and even atoms -- require intense utilization of databases and pattern-recognition tools. At the new Mission Bay campus, UCSF aims to attack these exact problems. In fall, 2004, the school plans to open the Institute for Quantitative Biomedical Research, headed by Cassman. It will serve as a clearinghouse for expertise and tools at the intersection of genetics, physics, chemistry, and computer science. The goal is to create the medical equivalent of industry-standard technology -- tools that can be quickly disseminated elsewhere, helping speed the creation and delivery of new medical treatments. Researchers at UCSF would not have it any other way. 


 (available online)
UCSF'S ROAD TO GLORY

1873
University of California Medical Dept. founded in San Francisco.

1947
University of California becomes important test center for experimental treatments of terminally ill cancer patients.

1953
Stanford Medical School's decision to move from San Francisco to Palo Alto leads to many doctors and scientists eventually making the switch to UCSF.

1969
Gene pioneer Bill Rutter arrives as head of UCSF's biochemistry department and creates intense collaborative atmosphere. (Thirteen years later, he founds biotech star Chiron.)

1976
J. Michael Bishop and Harold Varmus discover cancer genes. Same year, UCSF scientist founds Genentech, kicking off Bay Area's biotech industry.

1989
Bishop (right) and Varmus win Nobel Prize for work on cancer genes. Meanwhile, collaborative research efforts attract increasing federal funding and private donations. UCSF becomes known for pioneering AIDS research.

1996
City of San Francisco and Catellus Corp. donate 43 acres of land to expand space-starved UCSF campus. Mission Bay campus, when completed in 2020, will double space for UCSF research and classes.

2003
UCSF boasts more than two dozen members of National Academy of Sciences among faculty and one of the heftiest research coffers in the country.



  


 (available online)
MONEY MAGNET

UCSF ranks fourth in government research funding*

                                                  MILLIONS
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY                            $510
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA                           418.5
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON                             405.7
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO              365.4
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY, ST. LOUIS                     343.7

* Funding from National Institutes of Health
Data: NIH
  

Photograph: KENYON'S WORK ON AGING MAY SOON SPAWN TREATMENTS PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK BUTLER| Photograph: UCSF STUDENTS AT MISSION BAY CAMPUS PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKKEL AALAND| Photograph: THE CDC TURNED TO DERISI FOR SARS HELP PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK BUTLER 


Document BW00000020030904dz980000w


More Like This

 Article 313 *******************    


Features

40 Under 40 ; The celebration of youth flamed out with the dot-coms, but these 40 (plus one brother act) show that the young have remained restless. 

Julia Boorstin and Noshua Watson; REPORTER ASSOCIATE Jaclyn Stemple 
2,462 words 
15 September 2003
Fortune
169
English
Copyright (c) 2003 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

YOUNG, RICH, POWERFUL, AND CHANGING THE WORLD Work your way up from the bottom? Forget it. Our list of 40 (okay, 41) who have vaulted to the top before they hit 40. 

The 40 under 40 captures the American dream--rising from nothing and nowhere to achieve wealth and power--and combines it with the American obsession: speed. In the pages that follow, you'll see whiz kids who have managed to get to the top, to change the way businesses and consumers think, and to make boatloads of money before many have even started rinsing with Grecian Formula. 

For a time in the late 1990s and early 2000s, achieving this kind of quick success looked remarkably easy: (1) start a dot-com; (2) retire. And for the past five years FORTUNE has chronicled those who did it well, compiling a list of the 40 richest Americans under 40. But now, with so many tycoonlets "consulting" or back with the companies they had planned to bury, measuring success has become much more nuanced. 

So this year we broke our list into four: We'd keep measuring wealth, sure, but also look at those who wield the most influence, who show the top entrepreneurial promise, and who have the most beautiful minds. The ground rules: No one could appear on more than one list (otherwise Michael Dell would pop up atop each), and only Americans or those working for American companies would be considered. 

We calculated the "rich list" by combing through numbers from SEC proxies and stock-sale forms and by working with banking and real estate sources to divine valuations and property assessments. For the list of influentials, we scouted out leaders who control money, garner respect, and wield wide influence, from Linus Torvalds's Linux revolution to Aerin Lauder's transfiguration of global beauty. We ranked them based on interviews with peers and industry watchers--and after weeks of debate. Finding entrepreneurs was trickier; the proven ones made it to the rich list. So we found ten to watch--individuals who take chances, starting unusual and successful companies. Finally, the innovator list, which like entrepreneurs is unranked, falls furthest from the 40 Under 40's original goal. This group chases ideas, not money--though they don't turn that down--and have made their work transcend the theoretical world of the lab to apply to real life. 

Ranking young success may have been easier during the boom, but it's a lot more fun now. --J.B. 

THE TOP 10 MOST INFLUENTIAL In a short time this crew have become much followed (and in some cases feared) in their industries. 

1 SALLIE KRAWCHECK, 38, CEO, Smith Barney Wall Street's "Ms. Clean" heads the $5.7 billion No. 2 research brokerage. The former CEO of Sanford Bernstein, Krawcheck delivered unbiased research when Wall Street was still delivering analysts to clients. Now the Street is watching to see if she can make research--and Citigroup-- respectable again. 

2 JEFF ZUCKER, 38, President, NBC Entertainment Programming prodigy Zucker helmed NBC's Today at 26, then led NBC to dominate prime time. Rivals still try to copy his format. He's in it for the long run: Zucker's a leading candidate to run all of NBC. 

3 LINUS TORVALDS, 33, Fellow, Open Source Development Lab Torvalds dreamed up Linux--now he controls its growth. He has big allies and bigger enemies. IBM has adopted Linux; Microsoft abhors it. 

4 B. KEVIN TURNER, 37, CEO, Sam's Club; Executive VP, Wal-Mart The former Wal-Mart cashier became its CIO at age 34 and revamped the firm's entire tracking and sales technology; peers raced to keep up. Now he's turning around the uber-retailer's 46 million- member Sam's Club. 

5 LACHLAN MURDOCH, 32, Deputy COO, News Corp. Rupert's oldest son controls what Americans watch and read. As the No. 3 at News Corp., Murdoch oversees the U.S. publishing business and the company's 35 TV stations. 

6 DON A. MATTRICK, 39, President, Worldwide Studios, Electronic Arts Another programming prodigy: At 17, Mattrick coded his first videogame, called Evolution, then built a company to market it. He sold to EA in 1991. Now he oversees all the giant's studios and programmers and has moved from virtual to real strategies. 

8 STEVE JURVETSON, 36, Managing Director, Draper Fisher Jurvetson With hits like Hotmail and software company Interwoven, he has VCs watching what he's buying. Lately he has been looking at nanotechnology and molecular electronics to invest DFJ's $3 billion in capital. 

8 BRYAN NESBITT, 35, Executive Director, GM Design While he was at DaimlerChrysler, Nesbitt's hip PT Cruiser steered in the cash, forcing automakers to ape his design thinking. One company went further: GM hired him to breathe life into Chevrolet. 

9 AERIN LAUDER, 33, VP of Global Advertising, Estee Lauder Stylemaker, businesswoman, and socialite, Lauder is helping make over her grandmother Estee's once-staid company with edgy new images of beauty that influence global style. 

10 THEO EPSTEIN, 29, General Manager, Boston Red Sox In his first season Epstein, the youngest GM in baseball history, confidently trades players, holds down payroll, and appeases baseball's crustiest fans. 

THE 10 RICHEST Dot-commers still dominate this annual ranking. But those from the wide worlds of sports and Wall Street are making inroads. 

1 MICHAEL DELL, 38 CEO and Founder, Dell $17.12 billion 

The list's perennial No. 1, Dell wasn't shy about naming his company after himself. Now he ties it even closer, dropping "Computer" from the corporate name to reflect the push into servers, storage, and PC peripherals. No. 1 last year with $16.49 billion 

2 PIERRE OMIDYAR, 36 Chairman and Founder, eBay $7.06 billion 

eBay's largest shareholder splits his year between France and Nevada, but spends his time (and money) as a full-time philanthropist. A recent gift: $10 million to alma mater Tufts to create a school for public service. No. 2 last year with $3.82 billion 

3 JEFFREY BEZOS, 39 CEO and Co-founder, Amazon.com $4.85 billion 

He still can't turn a profit, but Bezos has turned plenty into believers. His stock was Nasdaq's best performer last year, and a surge in sales from free shipping this year has made Amazon soar. No. 4 last year with $1.66 billion 

4 JEFF SKOLL, 38 Chairman, Skoll Foundation $3.85 billion 

Skoll co-founded eBay with Omidyar. Now he's working like him, not with him: donating time and money. His foundation encourages social entrepreneurship. He has personally pitched in $165 million since 1998. No. 3 last year with $2.18 billion 

5 DAVID FILO, 37 Chief Yahoo and Co-founder, Yahoo $1.45 billion 

Press-shy Filo abandoned his electrical engineering Ph.D. attempt at Stanford to start Yahoo with No. 6 on our list, Yang. But just in case this whole "Internet" thing doesn't work out, Stanford says he's on a leave of absence. No. 7 last year with $551 million 

6 JERRY YANG, 34 Chief Yahoo and Co-founder, Yahoo $1.28 billion 

Still guiding Yahoo's strategy, Yang helped lead its recent acquisition of Overture, a coup in bolstering its business against competitors. With new CEO Terry Semel, he's branching Yahoo out into new areas. No. 8 last year with $514 million 

7 SERGEY BRIN, 30 President (Technology) and Co-founder, Google $900 million 

8 LARRY PAGE, 30 President (Products) and Co-founder, Google $900 million 

These two came up with the idea for a better search engine while working on their Ph.D.s in computer science at Stanford. In the early days of Google they resisted selling ads. Good thing they reconsidered: Google has been profitable since 2000, and FORTUNE estimates Google's 2002 revenues at $700 million. Now other privately held tech firms are waiting for Brin and Page to pick a date to go public. They hope a Google IPO will revive the market for dot-coms. Not on last year's list 

9 DAN SNYDER, 38 Owner, Washington Redskins $740 million 

After making a fortune selling his marketing and advertising company, Snyder is paying big bucks to revamp the Redskins, aggressively recruiting free agents and sacrificing draft picks. No. 6 last year with $664 million 

10 KEN GRIFFIN, 34 President, Citadel Investment Group $725 million 

Notoriously secretive Ken Griffin, who manages a $9.5 billion hedge fund, got started while an undergrad at Harvard, where he ran two investment partnerships from his dorm. He married this summer-- at Versailles. Not on last year's list 

THE TOP 10 ENTREPRENEURS TO WATCH It's been brutal lately for startups, yet these few found rich niches, from gangstawear to software. 

SEAN "P. DIDDY" COMBS, 33, CEO and Founder, Bad Boy Entertainment P. Diddy transformed himself from bad-boy rapper to multimedia mogul. His empire starts at music and puffs out from there: Clothing line Sean Jean brings in $300 million annually, his Justin's restaurants serve diners in New York City and Atlanta, and in the works are licensing deals for everything from furniture to vodka drinks. 

BILL NGUYEN, 32, President and Founder, SEVEN Networks Mobile- phone makers would be lost (or late) without Nguyen. His industrywide software allows Sprint, Cingular, and others to give their phones e-mail, calendar, and document access. Investors always ring twice: He sold his last telecom venture for $850 million in 2000. 

MARC BENIOFF, 39, CEO and Founder, Salesforce.com Looks as if nobody told Benioff the bubble burst. He built a company that sells sales-automation software by the sip. Running at $100 million a year, Salesforce.com is ripe for an IPO. 

ELON MUSK, 32, CEO and CTO, SpaceX PayPal's co-founder sold it to eBay for $1.5 billion in 2002, then launched SpaceX. Its plan: a rocket that can put a payload into orbit for $6 million. 

JAGDEEP SINGH, 36, CEO and Founder, Infinera Make that investors ring thrice. Singh's sold two of his last three telecom companies. Now he's shrinking telecom components, creating high-power iridium phosphide chips that are cheaper than standard silicon. 

JOE LIEMANDT, 35, CEO, President and Founder, Trilogy Liemandt has thrived in the bust by selling his enterprise software on a pay- for-performance basis. The price is right, and public companies, which crave predictable income, have trouble competing. 

MARTIN ROSCHEISEN, 34, CEO and Co-founder, Nanosolar After selling eGroups, FindLaw, and TradingDynamics, Roscheisen tried retirement, then started Nanosolar, which produces low-cost solar cells with the power to remake the alternative-energy market. 

SCOTT BLUM, 39, CEO and Founder, Buy.com After taking his Buy.com public in 2000, he bought it back in 2001 and kept building. Now he's expanding, launching an iTunes Music competitor for the PC and a QVC knockoff for TV. 

CHAD MIRKIN, 39, Co-founder, NanoInk and NanoSphere This Northwestern prof combined his entrepreneurial spirit with award- winning nanotech research to launch two companies that miniaturize circuits and detect biomolecules. 

LIZ LANGE, 36, President and Founder, Liz Lange Maternity The hottest player in the $1.2 billion maternity clothing biz, Lange's in demand with new moms. Once an exclusive label with revenues of $8 million, her firm is growing fast, thanks to licensing and distribution deals with Nike and Target. 

THE TOP 10 INNOVATORS It's not all about the money. These innovators have challenged conventional thinking by devising new ideas, new ways of working with materials, or new ways of solving problems. 

ANGELA BELCHER, 36 Co-founder, Semzyme The nanotechie and MIT prof has a vision for viruses. She's created a way to grow Saran Wrap--like material that can make smaller computer chips or one day store vaccines without refrigeration. 

MIGUEL DE ICAZA, 30 CTO, Novell Ximian The other Linux guy, de Icaza brought a graphical interface to the geeky open source OS. In August, Novell acquired his company, Ximian, and its software for converting new Microsoft Windows programs into Linux. 

PAUL KRAJEWSKI, 34 Group Manager, Novel Alloys and Processes Lab at GM To reduce fuel consumption, GM's SUVs needed to lose some weight. Krajewski invented nine technologies to enable greater use of lighter-than-steel aluminum and magnesium. 

ETHAN ZUCKERMAN, 30 CTO and Founder, Geekcorps To help conquer the digital divide in the Third World, Zuckerman launched Geekcorps. It sends high-tech volunteers to small businesses in developing countries, tying far-flung startups to the developed world. 

KEITH SCHWAB, 34 Senior Physicist, National Security Agency Quantum physicist Schwab is building a monster code-breaking computer for the NSA. In academia, he devised better measurements for Earth's rotation and for tiny nanostructures. 

ANDY, 35, and LARRY, 38, WACHOWSKI, Writers, Producers, Directors, The Matrix trilogy Two words: bullet time. The brothers reinvented action movies, taking Hong Kong movie tricks and adapting them for the U.S. The box office for the first two Matrix films: $1.1 billion. 

MICHAEL KREMER, 38 Economics Professor, Harvard University MacArthur Award-winner Kremer has created econ-based programs that enable drugmakers to sell vaccines to the Third World at a profit while also making the drugs affordable to those governments. 

STEVEN LEVITT, 36 Economics Professor, University of Chicago "Dismal scientist" Levitt's controversial research showed that legalizing abortion lowered future crime rates. He also studies sumo wrestling corruption, cheating, and gang economics. 

PAUL DEPODESTA, 30 Assistant General Manager, Oakland A's Baseball vets go by the gut; DePodesta goes by the numbers. He tossed out traditional stats and designed new metrics for measuring performance, allowing the A's to build a top team on a low budget. 

HELEN GREINER, 35 President, iRobot Greiner has made robots an everyday commodity. iRobot's Roomba vacuum cleaner sells for only $200, and the Army uses its Packbot for reconnaissance in Afghanistan and Iraq. 

Caption: COLOR PHOTO Turn the page and open the foldout to see the lists. COLOR PHOTO: KRAWCHECK: NATHANIEL WELCH TWO COLOR PHOTOS: CORBIS COLOR PHOTO: EVAN KAFKA COLOR PHOTO: FERGUS GREER Dell COLOR PHOTO: LANDOV--BLOOMBERG NEWS Omidyar COLOR PHOTO: AP Bezos COLOR PHOTO: LANDOV--BLOOMBERG NEWS Skoll COLOR PHOTO: GETTY IMAGES Filo COLOR PHOTO: AP Yang COLOR PHOTO: EVAN KAFKA Brin, Page COLOR PHOTO: AP Snyder COLOR PHOTO: GETTY IMAGES COLOR PHOTO: FERGUS GREER COLOR PHOTO: AMANDA FRIEDMAN TWO COLOR PHOTOS: AP COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE ASSELIN From left: Krajewski, Belcher, DePodesta, Zuckerman, Kremer, and Schwab 


Document FORTU00020030903dz9f0000a


More Like This

 Article 314 *******************    



Insider Trading Spotlight 

622 words 
17 September 2003
The Wall Street Journal
C17
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


                 Biggest Individual Trades

  (Based on reports filed with regulators last week)

                NO. OF
               SHRS. IN    RANGE
$ VALUE         TRANS.     OF SHR      TRANSACTION
(000)           (000)      VALUES         DATES

  BUYERS

Gold Banc (Symbol: GLDB)
(Insider's Name/Title: A. Petersen/DI)
   3,242         300       10.81         9/03/03

Nanophase Technologies (Symbol: NANX)
(Insider's Name/Title: B. Whitmore/BI)
   2,000          45       34.42         9/08/03

Kmart Holding (Symbol: KMRT)
(Insider's Name/Title: J. Kelly/O)
   1,000          34       29.23         9/03/03

Blockbuster (Symbol: BBI)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Redstone/DOI)
     548          25       21.80-21.99   9/04/03

Gold Banc (Symbol: GLDB)
(Insider's Name/Title: R. Gourley/DI)
     540          50       10.81         9/08/03

Orthodontic Centers Of America (Symbol: OCA)
(Insider's Name/Title: T. Smith/BI)
     537          75        7.11-7.20    9/04/03

Blockbuster (Symbol: BBI)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Redstone/DOI)
     535          25       21.16-21.54   9/08/03

American Capital Strategies (Symbol: ACAS)
(Insider's Name/Title: P. Harper/D)
     520          20       25.89-26.10   9/10/03

Blockbuster (Symbol: BBI)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Redstone/DOI)
     431          20       21.20-21.77   9/05/03

Blockbuster (Symbol: BBI)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Redstone/DOI)
     388          18       21.41-21.60   9/03/03

  SELLERS

Yankee Candle (Symbol: YCC)
(Insider's Name/Title: W. Hutchins/BI)
 216,627       9,317       23.25         9/08/03

Yankee Candle (Symbol: YCC)
(Insider's Name/Title: S. Horbach/DOI)
 216,627       9,317       23.25         9/08/03

Yankee Candle (Symbol: YCC)
(Insider's Name/Title: T. Forstmann/DOI)
 216,627       9,317       23.25         9/08/03

Yankee Candle (Symbol: YCC)
(Insider's Name/Title: T. Lister/BI)
 216,627       9,317       23.25         9/08/03

Yankee Candle (Symbol: YCC)
(Insider's Name/Title: J. Nicholls/DI)
  86,014       3,700       23.25         9/08/03

Clear Channel (Symbol: CCU)
(Insider's Name/Title: T. Hicks/D)
  28,749         641       44.66-45.11   9/02/03

Sina (Symbol: SINA)
(Insider's Name/Title: B. Wu/BI)
  25,286         713       35.04-35.93   9/09-10/03

Sina (Symbol: SINA)
(Insider's Name/Title: Y. Lan/BI)
  25,286         713       35.04-35.93   9/09-10/03

Bed Bath (Symbol: BBBY)
(Insider's Name/Title: L. Feinstein/CB)
  21,958         513       42.27-42.89   9/03-04/03

Bed Bath (Symbol: BBBY)
(Insider's Name/Title: W. Eisenberg/CB)
  21,958         513       42.27-42.89   9/03-04/03
  ---
              Buying and Selling By Sector

  (Based on actual transaction dates in reports received through Friday)

SECTOR                       BUYING           SELLING

Basic Industries             208,630       24,900,361
Business Services            186,815      127,191,059
Capital Goods                      0                0
Consumer Durables                  0       41,543,392
Consumer Non Durables         80,178       81,577,109
Consumer Services          1,947,299      353,947,102
Energy                       182,920       73,028,225
Finance                    5,672,969      370,503,434
Health Care                  592,333      350,487,389
Industrial                     8,125       61,850,263
Media                         36,824       45,768,369
Utilities                     56,468      142,767,157
Technology                   395,051    1,329,593,999
Transportation                 9,100       33,719,338

  *-Half of the transactions were indirect.

  B-beneficial owner of more than 10% of a security class. CB-chairman. CEO-chief executive officer. CFO-chief financial officer. CO-chief operating officer. D-director. DO-director and beneficial owner. H-officer, director and beneficial owner. I-indirect transaction filed through a trust, insider spouse, minor child or other. O-officer. OD-officer and director. P-president. UT-unknown. VP-vice president. Daily report includes transactions related to stock option exercises.
  ---
  Source: Thomson Financial   

Document J000000020030917dz9h0003c


More Like This

 Article 315 *******************    



In Business This Week: HEADLINER: BILL JOY

OUT OF SUN'S ORBIT 

By Peter Burrows Edited by Anne Newman 
208 words 
22 September 2003
BusinessWeek
42
Number 3850
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Known as techdom's ``other Bill'' -- and as revered in Silicon Valley as Gates is in Redmond, Wash. -- Bill Joy's departure from Sun Microsystems on Sept. 9 is a symbolic blow to the beleaguered computer maker. 

Joy single-handedly created the computer code that helped launch Sun in the early '80s. He championed efforts such as the Java language and other open-source technology, always stoking Sun's rep as a company on the leading edge. 

But Joy's departure will have little impact. For years he has worked with a small team in Aspen, Colo., and was rarely seen in Sun's Silicon Valley (Calif.) offices. Sun has little to show from his most recent efforts. 

So why is he leaving now? ``You should ask why I stayed so long,'' says Joy, who first thought about leaving in 1987. ``I'm ready to take a break after 30 years.'' 

Joy won't say what's next. But he's thinking about completing a book about the dangers posed by emerging technologies, such as nanotechnology and biotech, and even left open the possibility of starting his own company. 

Document BW00000020030918dz9m0001o


More Like This

 Article 316 *******************    



Health & Family

Experimental Drug for Cancer Found Less Toxic Than Taxol 

By David P. Hamilton 
730 words 
24 September 2003
The Wall Street Journal
D14
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

American Pharmaceutical Partners Inc. said its experimental cancer drug Abraxane, a re-engineered form of the common chemotherapy drug Taxol, was significantly less toxic and more effective than Taxol itself in late-stage human tests. 

The company, however, didn't release the data underlying the trial results. The trial also lacked a common safeguard known as double-blinding designed to prevent research bias, since doctors and patients both knew whether Abraxane or Taxol was in use. 

Chief Executive Patrick Soon-Shiong said the analysis of the clinical trial was still in progress, and that the company prefers to report detailed results at a scientific meeting, possibly later this year. He added that a double-blinded study would have been impractical because of differences in how the drugs are administered, but noted that the radiologists who assessed treatment results were "blinded" to the condition of patients and their drug therapy. 

American Pharmaceutical, Schaumburg, Ill., is one of several concerns racing to modify traditional chemotherapy drugs in ways that limit toxic side effects and improve their tumor-killing power. Many such attempts have fallen flat, although successful Abraxane results could help rejuvenate interest in the field. 

Some would-be rivals also aren't far behind. Cell Therapeutics Inc., Seattle, is conducting three large-scale trials of a related Taxol derivative called Xyotax in lung-cancer patients, and expects to report its first data by late next year. Further back is NeoPharm Inc., Lake Forest, Ill., which is studying a way of wrapping Taxol in fatty molecules known as liposomes in early-stage trials. 

Taxol, known generically as paclitaxel, is a chemotherapy drug widely used to treat breast and ovarian cancer. Like most chemotherapy, Taxol targets rapidly dividing cells, a strategy that kills both tumor cells and some normal cells such as those lining the stomach and colon. The effectiveness of such drugs often is limited by the side effects patients are able to tolerate. 

Taxol's side effects include nausea, nerve damage and susceptibility to infection resulting from destruction of some blood cells. What is more, Taxol must be accompanied by a derivative of castor oil called Cremophor, which helps the drug circulate through the body. Cremophor, however, is also toxic and can lead to serious allergic reactions. 

American Pharmaceutical attempted to sidestep some of those toxic effects by "repackaging" Taxol, effectively wrapping tiny amounts of the drug inside "nanoparticles" constructed from bioengineered human protein called albumin. The result was Abraxane, which until recently was known only by the code name ABI-007. 

Thanks to the albumin wrapper, Abraxane can be administered without Cremophor, eliminating one source of side effects. Dr. Soon-Shiong says he thinks the tiny particles can slip easily through the leaky holes that develop in tumor blood vessels. The coating also seems to help tumor cells absorb the drug more readily, Dr. Soon-Shiong says. 

In the latest trial, which involved 460 patients with metastatic breast cancer, doctors gave one group of patients Taxol plus Cremophor and other drugs designed to minimize its side effects. The other group received Abraxane without Cremophor or other therapies, at a dose equivalent to 50% more active drug than the Taxol group received. 

American Pharmaceutical said that patients in the Abraxane group saw their tumors shrink at a "significantly" greater rate than those in the Taxol group, although it didn't provide details. In addition, the company said that tumors in the Abraxane group remained stable longer and that the same patients suffered a lower rate of blood-cell destruction, again without providing details. Abraxane was associated with a higher rate of nerve damage, which the company attributed to the higher dose. 

Some doctors who have studied Abraxane said that even the bare outline of the trial results were encouraging. "It's very exciting," said Joanne Blum, a cancer specialist at the Baylor-Sammons Cancer Center in Dallas who conducted midstage trials of the drug. 

American Pharmaceutical, however, still faces several challenges. Because the active ingredient in Abraxane is identical to the already-approved Taxol, Dr. Soon-Shiong hopes to file for regulatory approval with the Food and Drug Administration under an abbreviated process. Some analysts, however, think Abraxane is so different from Taxol that the FDA is unlikely to approve it without additional large trials. 

Document J000000020030924dz9o0003i


More Like This

 Article 317 *******************    


First

An Ode to Joy ; Sun legend Bill Joy reflects on his career and moving on. 

Brent Schlender 
602 words 
29 September 2003
Fortune
36
English
Copyright (c) 2003 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

"To be honest, I can't believe I lasted this long," says Bill Joy. "It seems like I've been working on the same basic problems since college." 

Joy, the co-founder of Sun Microsystems, dropped in to chat the day after announcing that he was leaving Sun. While serving as the company's chief scientist, he's had a remarkable 21-year run of invention, way-outside-the-box thinking, and uncanny technological clairvoyance. Now, he says, "I'm just ready for something new and different." 

Anyone who has met Joy can't help but be taken in by his passion for the new and the different. Ask him a question, and he responds like John Coltrane playing a tenor sax solo: He spots a phrase or idea that he likes as it spills from his mouth, and then riffs on its every permutation as he desperately tries to keep up with his racing brain. 

In many ways Joy resembles a geek from central casting--his nebula of tousled hair and piercing eyes give him the look of a mad scientist. And he can summon up unworldly concentration when confronting a problem, whether it be some gnarly software code or the recalcitrant guts of a new microprocessor chip. 

But what makes Joy especially compelling is the mind-boggling breadth of his curiosity and his playful eccentricities. You never know where time with Joy is going to lead. In the late 1990s, I visited him at his home in Aspen for a profile. On the first day I barely got a question in. Joy wanted us to play checkers--for money- -with his then 4-year-old son. We spent the rest of the afternoon discussing everything from cardiac health to the fiction of Wallace Stegner, and tinkering with his incredibly complex home-theater system. And he was just as frenetic away from home. Beyond his day job, Joy has owned a San Francisco gallery specializing in primitive art, advised Bill Clinton on technology policy, dabbled in cattle ranching, and taught himself Spanish. 

A voracious reader, Joy likes to open a novel and start reading from the middle, just to see if he can figure out what happened in the earlier pages of the book. And when he decided he needed to lose some weight a few years ago, he started drinking copious amounts of coffee to quell his hunger pangs. He lost over 30 pounds. 

In recent years Joy has become better known as a Cassandra of sorts. In 2000 he wrote an article for Wired called "Why the Future Doesn't Need Us," which warned that IT, nanotechnology, and biotechnology are advancing so quickly they could easily run amok like a bad science-fiction movie. He spent two years trying to turn the article into a book, but says that the events of 9/11 have done more to awaken people to the world's perils than his own treatise ever could. 

Nevertheless, at heart Joy is an optimist, both about where technology can lead, and about the future of the company he co- founded. "Sun's technologies and strategies are in good shape and in good hands," he says. "And I have a sense that the Internet, despite all the problems with viruses and spam lately, can be made safe. In fact, that might be what I'll work on next." 

Let's hope so. 

--Brent Schlender 

Caption: COLOR PHOTO: MICHAEL O'NEILL Joy is both insatiably curious and playfully eccentric. 


Document FORTU00020030915dz9t0000g


More Like This

 Article 318 *******************    



Industry Insider: Research & Development

Reinventing Invention; How GE's Scott Donnelly is overseeing a $100 million R&D makeover 

1,700 words 
6 October 2003
BusinessWeek
IM4
Number 3852
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Not long after Jeffrey R. Immelt took over as chief executive of General Electric Co. from Jack Welch, GE unveiled a new corporate identity. ``Imagination at Work'' replaced the slogan ``We Bring Good Things to Life.'' and GE kicked off a campaign focusing on its leading-edge technology, including space-age windmills made with exotic new materials and medical-imaging systems capable of rendering three-dimensional views inside a patient's body. 

Now, GE is injecting fresh energy into its focus on invention. The thrust is taking shape at the company's corporate research and development center on a ridge overlooking the Mohawk River in Niskayuna, N.Y, just south of Schenectady. Scott C. Donnelly, GE's senior vice-president for global research is overseeing the center's renovation. Worldwide, GE is spending $212 million to update company labs. The $100 million centerpiece will be state-of-the-art ``wet labs'' that are being grafted onto the original complex, which was built after World War II, and last upgraded 20 years ago. The new labs will help GE scale up research in genomics, proteomics, and nanotechnology. There's also an Adirondack-style lodge that can accommodate 40 execs and scientists. Ordered up by Immelt himself, this woodsy meeting center is designed to turn ordinary strategic planning retreats into invention incubators. ``We're turning up the heat on the whole culture of innovation,'' says Donnelly. 

In a corporate culture as famously quantitative as GE's, managing the vexingly intangible process of innovation will be a challenge. Donnelly, who took over at Niskayuna in 2000, trained for the task during a three-year stint as vice-president for technology operations at GE Medical Systems. In his current post, Donnelly manages a $359 million annual operating budget (up 4.3% from 2002), as well as a 2,300-person global research staff, including 550 at R&D centers in Shanghai, Bangalore (India), and Munich. Industries editor Adam Aston visited Niskayuna to learn more about Donnelly's efforts to upgrade and internationalize GE's R&D. 

What's the research focus at the new facilities? 

The new wing is dedicated to what we call wet chemistry -- that includes organic chemistry, biology, and other life-science disciplines. We've always had a few biologists around. But with the molecular medicine work, we're seeing a huge increase in the number of people in those areas. Historically, GE's role in medical imaging has always been about physics -- from William Coolidge, who invented the X-ray tube in 1913 [which made possible the first mass-produceable X-ray machines], to computed tomography, magnetic-resonance imaging, and digital X-rays. Now the future of health care looks like one big chemistry experiment. It's looking at actual biological functions, on a molecule-by-molecule level. 

What's going on in areas beyond health care? 

I'd say the advances will continue to come from material sciences. Look at detector materials -- the first medical X-ray tube -- or superalloys or advanced ceramics or thermal barrier coatings that make it possible to run aircraft engines and power systems at higher temperatures and higher efficiencies. All those kinds of things are fundamentally materials breakthroughs. 

Are you also rethinking the way the businesses engage with the R&D process? 

On a quarterly basis, we want to get the CEOs [from each GE division] -- along with their top technology advisers and their marketing guys -- together for a day or so with the top scientific specialists here. These are usually very rich, highly strategic, discussions and the technology piece is just a part of that. 

How do these sessions help? 

Look at John Rice at GE Power Systems. He's running a $20 billion business. They came here with their top leadership team and spent some time talking about hydrogen energy. We talk about what-ifs: What if hydrogen really takes off and begins to transform the energy sector? How does GE fit into it? Where should we be investing? We're an energy infrastructure company. We provide capital goods and services to that whole sector. 

Has GE's R&D budget grown as a result of this reorientation? 

The overall amount of R&D spending GE has been committing grew to $2.6 billion in 2002 [from $2.3 billion the year before]. The $100 million investment going into this lab will pay for a brand-new wing of labs, plus we're refurbishing the existing ones, which were built in the late 1940s and early 1950s. And we see some head count growth here. We've also grown in places like Bangalore and Shanghai. 

Is it a challenge to integrate communication and research efforts from different regions? 

Culturally, it's just not an issue. GE is a global company. We research and design stuff, we make stuff, and we sell stuff all around the world. Just walk through the halls here for a while. We have people here from over 40 countries, from China, India, Europe, Eastern Europe. When you see a list of names on a project, I dare you to figure out who's where. 

Yet there are growing worries about the flow of tech jobs to low-cost sites offshore. Do costs affect the allocation of research work between the U.S. and Asian research centers? 

Yes, we do get a cost advantage. Is it the primary motivator for me? Absolutely not. It's access to the greatest technical talent we can get. It's the ability to grow our net amount of R&D researchers. I don't get brownie points from Jeff [Immelt] at the end of the day by saying I spent less on R&D. What we get the money for is to come up with the big ideas. And another factor is the facilities, the capital requirements. Whether I have to buy a scanning electron microscope for New York or China or India, that's the same amount of money wherever you put it. 

How do you choose what to do where? 

The way we try to run the global labs is what I call ``geographically transparent.'' The location is kind of irrelevant. On a given project -- say a turbine -- the manager might have six blocks [more specialized subprojects that are tackled simultaneously]. One of those blocks might be in Bangalore -- that could be fluid dynamics modeling. And another of those blocks might be in Shanghai -- that could be a materials-science problem. And the other four could be here. The challenge is how to maximize the amount of R&D given the skills we have at different centers. 

Are there strengths in one center that don't exist elsewhere? 

To a degree. But it's not what you might guess. A lot of people equate India with software -- that's not our game. In India, what we have are PhDs in organic chemistry and physics, mechanical engineers, and so on. This is not a coding shop. We have people there doing world-class analytical modeling of turbines -- the emulation of a fan blade or a bird strike or a hail ingestion into a jet engine. This is at the cutting edge of computational complexity. In China, core material sciences are very strong. So is the knowledge of advanced manufacturing processes. If you want to explore different ways of making something, you might have a team there that's really focused on exploring the optimal way to manufacture a material. 

Great industrial R&D operations seem to be in decline. A few of the most famous -- like Xerox PARC [Palo Alto Research Center] -- failed to fulfill their promise. How do you avoid a similar fate? 

GE's got a great history of R&D along with the likes of IBM's Watson Research Center, Hewlett-Packard in Palo Alto, and the great Bell Labs. It's true a couple of the labs had brilliant people with huge passion. But they didn't capitalize on it because they didn't figure out how to take that resource and benefit the business. 

It's one of the things we're very sensitive about. And I wouldn't advertise us as perfect. We put an enormous premium on trying to figure out how not to have people off working exclusively on ``wild blue yonder'' kinds of stuff. We need some of that, but our ultimate measure of success is this: What is the impact on our business? Of course, you have to be patient. It can take 5 years or 10 from the time somebody comes up with that new molecule for a business to use it. 

Ultimately, though, the culture here is such that if your invention doesn't end up going to the marketplace with a GE sticker on it, then we've failed. It's that simple. Getting patents, publishing papers -- these are all important things, and I give the guys kudos for doing all that. But at the end of the day, I still sit down every year with Jeff [Immelt] and say: ``Look, here's the stuff.'' If the aircraft engine guys, or power, or medical, can't tell the business side what was born out of this place and the impact it's having in the business, then we're not relevant. 


 (available online)
Research Frontiers

With a $100 million upgrade to its storied R&D center, GE is on a quest
for the next blockbuster technologies

NOW                            NEXT

MEDICAL SYSTEMS                MOLECULAR MEDICINE
Doctors Digital X-rays         will be able to  see and alter sin-
and CT scans                   gle molecules of protein or DNA

ENERGY TECHNOLOGY              HYDROGEN ENERGY
High-efficiency                New gear will be needed to replace
electric turbines              trillions of dollars worth of
                               petroleum-based infrastructure

ADVANCED MATERIALS             NANOTECHNOLOGY
High-temp ceramics             Engineering on an atom-by-atom scale
and superalloys                will let scientists fabricate novel
                               materials to spec
  

Photograph: DONNELLY: ``We're turning up the heat on the whole culture of innovation'' PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD FRANCE 


Document BW00000020031002dza600002


More Like This

 Article 319 *******************    



Vindication; Patrick Soon-Shiong is tantalizingly close to a cancer breakthrough with huge impications. So why do so many people want to see him fail? 

David Armstrong 
2,025 words 
6 October 2003
Forbes
126
Volume 172 Issue 7
English
(c) 2003 Forbes Inc. 

Patrick Soon-Shiong is tantalizingly close to a cancer breakthrough with huge impications. So why do so many people want to see him fail? 

Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong has been called ruthless and a headline-grabber. As a scientist he has been criticized for hyping his research results; as a drugmaker he has been accused of ripping off investors. Short-sellers have boldly bet against him, risking huge losses. Even his own brother, an early backer, sued him for fraud and fired him--twice--from the company they started. Their skirmishing lasted two years and destroyed their relationship. 

Yet Soon-Shiong, chairman and controlling shareholder of publicly held American Pharmaceutical Partners, endured the blows and has been largely exonerated--in the meantime, rising to billionaire status. Credit his immovable faith in the promise of an experimental cancer treatment dubbed Abraxane. 

Ten years in the making, Abraxane aims at making Taxol, the world's bestselling chemotherapy drug for cancer, far more potent with far less severe side effects.Each dose contains millions of molecules of paclitaxel (generic Taxol) embedded in submicroscopic balls of human protein that are only a hundredth the size of a red blood cell. The protein in these nanoparticles, albumin, carries the drug safely through the bloodstream so it can slip through the leaky vessels inside tumors and kill cancerous cells in a concentrated rush. And because it has stripped out one of chemo's most toxic components, it can be given in higher doses--yet be administered in only one-sixth the time, with fewer side effects. 

The Food & Drug Administration has granted fast-track status to Abraxane and could approve it by early 2004. Results of late-stage clinical trials could be unveiled within months. "This is the culmination of my career's obsession," Soon-Shiong says. "This will, for the first time, unlock the full potential of that compound." 

Moreover, if Soon-Shiong's concept of "hiding" Taxol inside teensy spheres of protein wins clearance, he hopes to use it similarly for other drugs that treat cancer and other diseases. If Abraxane gets approved, APPwill immediately begin producing the chemo and, Soon-Shiong hopes, his legions of skeptics will finally just go away. 

Paclitaxel, sold for years as Taxol by Bristol-Myers Squibb and now by generic firms as well, generates $2.1 billion a year. Analysts say that Abraxane could gross $25million to $40 million in its first year alone. A consultant hired by American Pharmaceutical Partners has given Abraxane an 80% chance of success and pegged the value of APP's license to make and sell the drug at $1 billion. Frenzied investors have bid APP's market value up 250% in the past year, to $2.4 billion or ten times the revenue it generates from its main business of selling generic injectable drugs. Soon-Shiong, who owns 52%of APP through his 80% stake in its privately held parent, American Bioscience, has seen his worth jump to $1.1 billion, up from $390 million since December 2001's IPO. 

Of course, the delivery system could flop or suffer long delays. Drug hunters have been trying for years to create similar protein-encased "packages" for delivering potent drugs, mostly unsuccessfully. The FDA has agreed to look at Abraxane as a chemical equivalent to Taxol but, depending on the trial results, could order Soon-Shiong to conduct massive new trials. But the bar is low:The drug need only be slightly more effective than Taxol or a bit less harmful. And early results are upbeat:In an ongoing midstage trial of 100 breast cancer patients who failed to respond to traditional Taxol therapy, 6 of the first 28 patients reporting have seen their tumors shrink by half. One woman's tumor disappeared completely. 

But Soon-Shiong's results to date have done little to quiet those who, he claims, have been trying to bring him down for years. Questions about the drug's clinical trials and allegations of supposed self-dealing between Soon-Shiong's two companies, American Bioscience (which owns Abraxane) and American Pharmaceutical Partners (which will make and sell it), have attracted short-sellers by the boatload. In April, with APP stock trading in the $12 range, every single freely tradable share of APPhad been sold short by speculators betting the price would fall. Now APP trades at $37, and short interest is down to 58% of shares outstanding. 

"I'm confident the science is sound," says Soon-Shiong. 

He has spent much of his life dealing with doubters. Soon-Shiong was born in South Africa in 1952 to parents who had fledChina during World War II. Soon-Shiong attended the University of Witwatersrand's medical school on a scholarship, graduating fourth out of 189. As one of the first nonwhite surgical residents at Johannesburg's General Hospital on staff, he earned $1,000 a month, half the rate of his white peers. His first patient, a white Afrikaner, initially refused to let Soon-Shiong treat him. 

By 1983 he had joined the faculty of UCLA's medical school and gained a reputation for taking on difficult cases. At age 34 he performed the school's first whole pancreas transplant, saving the life of a diabetic woman. He was asked to start UCLA's transplant program but preferred to look for less invasive alternatives to treat diabetes. Soon-Shiong hit upon an emerging technique of transplanting islets, the cells that produce insulin inside the pancreas. 

Researchers had been exploring islet transplantation since the mid-1970s without much luck. Almost invariably, antibodies would obliterate these cells before they had the chance to spew out much insulin. But in 1987 Soon-Shiong felt he had found a way to protect the islets, by tucking the cells inside capsules made from a gel derived from seaweed. 

His colleagues were skeptical the young surgeon could deliver. "He told the world he was curing diabetes. But in the scientific realm, you need to have your results reproduced by others to have them validated. His results were controversial,"says Dr. Michael Zinner, Soon-Shiong's boss at the time. 

By 1991 Soon-Shiong had left UCLA, starting a firm called VivoRx to pursue the diabetes work. He did so with help from his older brother, Terrence, a London-based investor, who says he put in $2.5 million. (Patrick says Terrence put in nothing.)Soon-Shiong was also fixated on the concept of wrapping other drugs inside biologically active capsules to unlock more of their power and curb their side effects. He already had begun tinkering with cancer drugs, research that later would yield Abraxane and cause a nasty fight. 

In 1993 the FDA approved human trials of Soon-Shiong's diabetes approach. The first patient for the islet cells encapsulated in seaweed was a severe diabetic who had been injecting insulin for 30 years. Operating at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Los Angeles, Soon-Shiong cut a 2-inch slit in the patient's abdomen and, over 30 minutes, literally poured in 10,000 alginate capsules. 

It worked. The patient was able to walk unassisted and, after being weaned off insulin for 9 months, went a full 30 days without an injection. Elated, Soon-Shiong hit the network newscasts, TV talk shows and diabetes conferences, gaining quasicelebrity status--before bothering to publish his results in a peer-reviewed medical journal. That rankled colleagues who had yet to see the results he would publish months later in the journal Lancet. 

Rivals were incensed that Soon-Shiong seemed to be suggesting a cure for diabetes was at hand. James Glavin, president of the American Diabetes Association at the time, told one newspaper, "It's far too early to view this as a cure, or even a therapy. We don't need this kind of inappropriate hype." (A thorough search of TV transcripts, however, shows no mention by Soon-Shiong that he had a surefire, imminent cure.) 

The attention attracted Milan Puskar, head of the big generic drugmaker Mylan Laboratories. In June 1994 Puskar agreed to have Mylan invest $5 million in VivoRx, the diabetes firm, for a 10% stake and to fund research costs of $200,000 a month. At the same time Soon-Shiong formed a second company--VivoRx Pharmaceuticals, later renamed American Bioscience--to pursue cancer research. Soon-Shiong got Puskar to invest a token $1,000 for a 10% stake in that second outfit. 

For four years Soon-Shiong juggled both courses of research, but he seemed to be working harder on the nanoparticles at American Bioscience than on the diabetes work at VivoRx. In 1998 Mylan's Puskar and Patrick's brother, Terrence, fired Soon-Shiong and sued him for fraud and self-dealing, alleging he had used consultants paid by VivoRx to work at American Bioscience and had diverted Mylan's money to cancer research. In early 1999 the case went to an arbitrator, who examined 17,000 pages of documents--and cleared Patrick Soon-Shiong of any wrongdoing. 

Terrence rehired his brother, but 14 months later he sued Patrick again on similar claims. The litigation simmered for more than a year until Patrick agreed to pay $32 million for the balance of Mylan's American Bioscience shares and payments to fund Terrence's diabetes research for three years. Patrick had to stay out of the diabetes field until June 2003, but he got clear title to his Abraxane patents. Patrick stayed with American Bioscience, which later formed American Pharmaceutical Partners, and took it public, retaining a 52% stake. 

VivoRx, renamed Amcyte, withered, and today its diabetes research has gone largely nowhere. Terrence, who refused to comment for this story, holds the diabetes patents, though little is being done with them. American Bioscience, meanwhile, could be on the brink of something great:Abraxane. 

But Patrick Soon-Shiong, raising still more eyebrows among his rivals and detractors, struck a highly unusual licensing arrangement with himself. Abraxane technically is owned by American Bioscience, his 80%-owned private shop in Santa Monica, Calif. that, in turn, still owns 65% of American Pharmaceutical Partners. Soon-Shiong is chief executive and largest shareholder of both. 

In 1999 American Bioscience granted APP exclusive NorthAmerican rights to manufacture and sell Abraxane, in exchange for $60 million up front and another $25 million based on hitting certain milestones. If the drug is a hit, both companies will split profits after APPrecoups sales and production costs. If it's a flop, Patrick Soon-Shiong and ABI's private shareholders will have borne no financial risk (except for their stake in APP). APP's public holders will have crapped out a $75 million bet. 

The deal is fully disclosed in the company's SEC filings, and the licensing terms were deemed fair by a consulting firm hired by APP. Yet even Soon-Shiong's supporters think it smells bad. "Nobody likes these kinds of structures,"says Megan Murphy, an analyst with Natexis Bleichroder who likes APP's generics business. In an August conference call with investors, Soon-Shiong admitted, "It is something we will have to address in the future." 

Scott King, president of Islet Sheet Medical, a San Francisco biotech and a onetime corporate rival to VivoRx, claims that the Soon-Shiong brothers' legal war has made it harder for small biotechs like his to get funding for research in islet cell transplantation. "He's very personable, very charming and very good at getting money out of investors. But as for moving the technology forward, he's done a great deal of harm," says King. 

Patrick Soon-Shiong dismisses King's carping as professional jealousy: "Scott King probably thinks I'll be a threat to him again." The noncompete in diabetes research has expired and Patrick vows to get back into the field. This will be another shot at the work that started Patrick on his long odyssey, and another chance to vindicate himself--and vanquish his opponents. 

Document FB00000020030919dza60000p


More Like This

 Article 320 *******************    


The Fortune Business Calendar

October ; Canadians give thanks for whatever it is they do, bosses have their day, we remember Black Thursday, and direct marketers bother each other for a change. 

Alynda Wheat 
1,146 words 
13 October 2003
Fortune
32
English
Copyright (c) 2003 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

1 Be a ham! It's both National Pork Month and Self-Promotion Month. That's known as convergence. It's also Dryer Vent Safety Month. That's known as someone with nothing better to do than create odd observances. Wonder how much that pays? 

2 The Pharmaceutical Marketing Congress wraps up in Philly. Yeah! If there's anything pharma firms need to learn, it's how to turn a buck.... Call it the industry that Sarbanes-Oxley built: AICPA holds conferences on fraud and litigation in Miami Beach. 

3 B-school students, entrepreneurs, and academics meet at the Nafricom Ghana Business Process Outsourcing and Technology Conference. The theme of the event is "Ghana, the Time Is Now." Perhaps not. The event is in Philadelphia. 

4/5 Saturday, beer drinkers unite at the World Beer Festival, at the athletic field in Durham, N.C., where Bull Durham was filmed. To make public drinking more of a family event, children's activities are available. 

6 The Association of the U.S. Army gathers in Washington, D.C. If, however, you are observing Yom Kippur, please continue to atone unmolested. Montreal welcomes the World Conference of Historical Cities. Next year's site is Constantinople. 

7 Californians pick a new governor--who should last a good four months out there.... Call Merrill Lynch CEO Stan O'Neal and wish him happy birthday on his 52nd. It should be a good one--Uranus is in retrograde this month. That means good lovin' for all the Libra children. Other celebrants: Qualcomm chief Dr. Irwin Jacobs and rock legend Chuck Berry (the 18th); Minnesota Vikings owner Red McCombs (the 19th), and a global titan named Bill Gates (the 28th). 

8 The Small Firms Conference & Exhibit in Fort Lauderdale tries to help little guys in the securities industry, while Opal Financial Group's Fixed Income Institutional Capital and Investing summits kick off in D.C. Or, wait, yes! Law & Order is on tonight. 

9 International Video Conferencing Inc. invites you to Hauppauge, N.Y., for a seminar on the wonders of videoconferencing and why you need it. Where is Hauppauge? About two miles south of Village of the Branch. You can't miss it. 

10 Foresight ponders wee things at its conference on Molecular Nanotechnology in Burlingame, Calif. The rest of us catch director Quentin Tarantino's ode to violence, Kill Bill: Volume 1. 

11/12 If the phone stays quiet this weekend or your mailbox seems more peaceful, it may be because the Direct Marketing Association is in Orlando for its annual meeting. Tom Brokaw speaks, bravely sacrificing himself for the rest of us. 

13 On Columbus Day, the U.S. lauds the explorer now more often reviled for slaughtering Native Americans, while the Canadian Thanksgiving celebrates a successful harvest. See? Canadians are nicer. 

15 Sure, you'll tell the wife you have to jet to Seoul for the Korea Logistics Expo. But we know you're just getting into town early for tomorrow's International Bakery Fair. That does not make you a bad person. 

16 National Boss Day. Do people who hire and fire really need their own holiday? Guess so.... The National Weather Service issues its November outlook. We're guessing hurricanes, floods, heat waves, and freezes. You know, more of the same. 

17 Before we kick this weekend off, wish the Silicon Valley Bank a happy 20th anniversary. That's 140 in tech years! On Saturday the World Series scores and the Ironman Triathlon bikes, swims, and runs through Hawaii. Sunday, the Mortgage Bankers Association hooks it up for shizzle at its 90th Annual Convention & Expo in San Diego. The Beach Boys will sing. Greta van Susteren will referee Al Gore and Bob Dole's point-counterpoint. General Tommy Franks will do the hustle on the dance floor. Um, well, no. But he will be there. 

20 Working Women's Economic Status says women earn 76.3% of what men do. Female college grads make 27% less than males. Only 40% of women, vs. 58.4% of men, are earning more than $35,000. Happy National Business Women's Week. 

21 The World Economic Outlook conference starts in Philadelphia. Drinking game! Every time a forecaster uses the word "bleak," take a swig. If you're on the left coast, try the Eighth Annual Latin Business Expo at the Los Angeles Convention Center or the 2003 Fellow Awards at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif. Then, do some good. Take the redeye back to New York for the Trickle Up fundraiser at Lincoln Center on Wednesday. The event will help provide seed grants to small-business owners in the U.S., Africa, and Asia. 

23 Promise you won't get overexcited? Promise? The Postage Stamp Mega Event comes to New York City. As if that weren't enough, the 15th Annual Fall New Jersey RV Show pulls into Edison, N.J., tomorrow. Yeah. It's a lot to take in. 

24 Today in history: Black Thursday! The stock market began its slide toward the Crash of 1929 and the Great Depression. Extra credit if you spot Alan Greenspan anywhere near a microphone today. 

25/26 The Linkage Inc.'s HR Masters Symposium features a golf tourney and sessions led by Nobel Peace Prize laureates Desmond Tutu and Henry Kissinger, and PBS's Pat Mitchell. It's not that we weren't invited. We're just busy. 

27 Someone, somewhere declared this Cranky Co-Workers Day. This would be a prime opportunity to practice your dying-of- indeterminate-but-highly-contagious-Third-World-virus shtick and call in sick. 

28 Verizon announces earnings. The telco's CFO, Doreen Toben, climbs from No. 25 to No. 17 on our list of the 50 Most Powerful Women (see page 80). Okay, Doreen. We can hear you now. 

29 You can still check out the New Orleans Media Experience, featuring a masquerade ball, Rock the Vote benefit concert, film, and videogame parties. Thank goodness. New Orleans was starting to seem really rigid. 

30 Aetna and Liz Claiborne report earnings. Curiously, the government picks Mischief Night to issue data on GDP and Initial Jobless Claims. All we're saying is that if the White House gets TP'ed, it wasn't us. 

31 We have nothing to say here. Is that a trick or a treat? 

For more information on these events, see fortune.com/calendar. 

To submit events: E-mail: calendar@fortunemail.com 

Fax: 212-467-1409 Mail: The FORTUNE Business Calendar, FORTUNE, 

1271 Avenue of the Americas, Room 1560B, New York, N.Y. 10020 

Caption: SIX COLOR PHOTOS: ALL PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES 


Document FORTU00020030930dzad00004


More Like This

 Article 321 *******************    


Features

Joy After Sun ; With his corporate ties cut, the "Edison of the Net" speaks freely on the challenges facing Sun, the Net, and, of course, Microsoft. 

Bill Joy; Brent Schlender 
3,466 words 
13 October 2003
Fortune
154
English
Copyright (c) 2003 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

What's next? There's no one in IT better equipped to answer that question than Bill Joy, a man FORTUNE once dubbed the "Edison of the Internet." Nor could there be a better time to ask him than now, as the 48-year-old computer whiz embarks on his next gig after resigning as chief scientist of Sun Microsystems, the company he helped found 21 years ago. As you will see in the next few pages, the breadth of Joy's interests and expertise is exceeded only by the piquancy of his opinions. He's a curious, often self- contradictory blend of philosopher, doomsayer, aesthete, Microsoft basher, political idealist, and, naturally, geek. 

The day after he resigned, he dropped by the office of FORTUNE's Brent Schlender for a three-hour chat covering everything from how best to scan old photos into a computer to the high jinks of Orson Welles. He talked about the fallout from his April 2000 article in Wired, which concluded that robotics, nanotech, and genetic engineering were emerging so quickly that--if we weren't careful-- they could endanger the human species. But mainly he talked about the Internet, a hotbed of innovation that he--perhaps more than any other individual--has helped shape. His musings tumbled forth, bordering on rambling before being saved by just-in-time epiphanies as he discovered ever more parallels in the workings of nature, markets, human behavior, and computer science. There was one question about the future he couldn't really answer, however, and that was what he would be doing later that evening ... 

WHAT'S ON YOUR TO-DO LIST NOW THAT YOU'VE LEFT SUN? 

Yesterday I had my tech guy come to the house and disconnect my Sun network, and tomorrow I'm having them shut down my company e- mail account. 

MAN, YOU'RE REALLY CUTTING THE CORD COMPLETELY. 

Well, limbo is not a good place to be. 

Seriously, though, I'm interested in figuring out how we can build a Net that is a lot less prone to viruses and spam, and not just by putting in filters and setting up caches to test things before they get into your computer. That doesn't really solve anything. We need an evolutionary step of some sort, or we need to look at the problem in a different way. 

I'm not convinced there's not something modest we can do that would make a big difference. You have to find a way to structure your systems in a safer way. Writing everything in Java [a programming language created by Sun] will help, because stuff written in antique programming languages like C [a widely used language created by Bell Labs in the early 1970s] is full of holes. Those languages weren't designed for writing distributed programs to be used over a network. Yet that's what Microsoft still uses. But even Java doesn't prevent people from making stupid mistakes. 

My own biggest mistake in the last 20 years was that sometimes I designed solutions for problems that people didn't yet know they had. That's why some of the things that could've made a difference couldn't find a market. When people get hit between the eyes with a two-by-four by these viruses, they know they have a problem. Still, the right time to address it would have been a while ago. The hardest part isn't inventing the solution but figuring out how to get people to adopt it. 

DO YOU HAVE ANY SPECIFIC IDEAS FOR SOLVING THE VIRUS PROBLEM? AFTER ALL, MOST COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY DEPENDS ON THE INTERNET. 

Nature deals with breakdowns in a complex system with evolution, and a very important part of evolution is the extinction of particular species. It's a sort of backtracking mechanism that corrects an evolutionary mistake. The Internet is an ecology, so if you build a species on it that is vulnerable to a certain pathogen, it can very well undergo extinction. By the way, the species that go extinct tend to have limited genetic diversity. 

ARE YOU IMPLYING THAT MICROSOFT WINDOWS IS VULNERABLE TO EXTINCTION PRECISELY BECAUSE IT IS SO DOMINANT? 

I wasn't thinking of any particular piece of software, but if you're running a monoculture of software--duh, this is not good. People have studied how to make software systems more reliable by running three distinctly diverse implementations at the same time and then comparing the results. That's what they used to do in the space program, when not only were redundant systems built for, say, guidance, but each of them also ran on different computers with different software. 

It may seem like a big effort to write programs several times, but not if you do it in a modular way. That's because, if a program is built out of 20 modules and you write two versions of each, you've now got some enormous number of possible combinations. Then, if you test each combination to see how "fit" it is in some fitness landscape, you're basically doing what evolution does. 

This is not something I thought of. People have been publishing papers about it for years. But the fact that the standard industry practice is to do none of this shows that software engineering as a discipline is in the Dark Ages compared with something like mechanical engineering. We shouldn't really build servers or operating systems that are genetically inferior, but we do. 

WHY CAN'T WHAT'S BEEN GOING ON IN THE LABS FOR DECADES WORK ITS WAY INTO THE REAL WORLD? 

Because the business is such a horserace. I've tried to get people at Sun to completely re-architect Solaris [Sun's version of Unix] in a more modular form. We did provide people with tools like Java to build more safe and reliable services on the network. But Java has been underappreciated because, once again, it was a solution to a problem people had heard about but had not felt viscerally--whereas the perceived cost of not choosing Microsoft or IBM was felt much more measurably and emotionally. 

IS THE RECENT VIRUS EPIDEMIC WAKING DEVELOPERS TO THE NEED TO DESIGN THEIR SOFTWARE DIFFERENTLY? 

People still don't recognize the scope of what we have to do. You can't simply write a new, multimillion-line program in C and expect it to be reliable unless you're willing to work on it for 20 years. It takes such a long time because that language doesn't support the easy detection of the kinds of flaws most viruses exploit to bring down systems. Instead, you need to use a programming language with solid rules so that you can have the software equivalent of chemistry: the predictable interaction of code as it runs. But on the network, where part of the software works here and part of it works there, programs also behave in emergent ways that are more biological and difficult to predict. So until you have a science of doing distributed computing, software developers will continue to just throw stuff out there. That's why the Net is not going to be secure. 

Also, distributed software systems have to be a lot simpler than they are now for us to have any hope of understanding even the mechanistic consequences, much less the nonlinear, biological consequences. You may not want to print this, but why have we been so fortunate that no one has done a Sobig virus that wipes your hard disk clean? It's just one more line of code. Just one line. 

That said, I suspect some of these virus writers never expected their bugs to replicate quite the way they did. The fact that a virus goes hypercritical doesn't necessarily mean it was intended to. You could take a loop of code that is perfectly functional and add or delete a single character and unintentionally turn it into an exponential. Then again, perhaps they were just curious what would happen. 

Spam is a different matter. It is mainly the result of the Internet having no friction. As long as e-mail is free, you're going to get a lot of spam because there's no disincentive to send it. A simple thing like requiring every Internet service provider to charge for sending mail could be a limiting factor. 

Another reason spam is so bad is that so many companies use Microsoft Outlook for reading e-mail. Again, because that program is written in C, it's quite easy to design a virus to go through your e-mail address book and broadcast spam to all the people you know. As soon as your company starts using Outlook, you can see emergent, horrible, almost biological things start to happen. So by using Outlook, you're not practicing safe e-mail. We need a "condomized" version of it. 

IS IT REALLY FAIR TO BLAME MICROSOFT FOR SO MANY OF THE NET'S WOES? 

The problem with Windows isn't so much that it's insecure, but that it is stale. The company has flailed away, making changes mainly to protect its monopoly. So lately, instead of getting better with each new release, Windows is just getting different. 

Also, Windows isn't well architected. There's a simple way to find out if an operating system has been well designed. When you get an error message, go to the help system and look up the exact words in that message to see if there was enough of a concept of an architecture that they have a consistent vocabulary to talk about what's broken. 

All you have to do is try it on a Mac and on a PC to see the difference. Apple took the time to come up with a concise vocabulary, but in Windows the designers of the help system used different terminology from the programmers. That reflects a lack of design discipline, which means that as the system grows, so does the ambiguity of the software itself. The result is a system encrusted with multiple layers of things that weren't really designed in so much as bolted on. Plus there are inessential artifacts of DOS from 20 years ago that still peek through and make trouble. 

Now Microsoft's working on a new version of Windows called Longhorn. But there are so many people working on it that it can't be conceptually simple. Bill Gates is a very smart person and is very dedicated, but you can't change the fact that it is human nature for people to carve up a problem and try to own things, for the complexity to accrete in corners, and for the vocabulary of the project not to make it all the way across. 

DESCRIBE THE TRAJECTORY OF YOUR CAREER AND WHERE IT MIGHT LEAD NEXT. 

I'd divide it into six chunks. As an undergraduate at the University of Michigan, I did numerical supercomputing and got to program some of the early Crays. Then I went to Berkeley and started working on Unix and building Internet protocols into it. My third stage was when we started Sun and built workstations and a distributed network file system and the Sparc microprocessor. 

I was all set to leave Sun in 1987 when the company entered into a contract with AT&T--which actually owned Unix--and asked me to completely rewrite it in a modular way. But I couldn't find the right programming language, so my fourth career didn't really go anywhere. Then, after the San Francisco earthquake in 1989, I moved to Aspen and started a research lab for Sun called Smallworks, where I messed around some more with the Sparc chip and some other odds and ends. 

In 1994, when a large block of ten-year options vested, I was thinking about leaving Sun again, but then the web came along and [CEO Scott McNealy] asked me to stick around a little longer. So I re-enlisted for the second time. That turned out to be the fifth stage, when I worked on the Java programming language, the Jini and JXTA concepts [networking and peer-to-peer technologies, respectively], Java chips for cellphones and smart cards--all that J-stuff. And finally, what really sucked up a lot of time the past couple of years was the aftermath of my Wired article, when I decided to try to expand it into a book that warns about why biotech, nanotechnology, and robotics have the power to render human beings extraneous. That is what I'd have to call the sixth phase of my career. 

But I also did other things on the side. I had a gallery in San Francisco that sold the work of untrained, "primitive" artists. I was on the board of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival for four or five years. I'm also really into architecture and architectural modeling on computers. I've worked with Christopher Alexander [the renowned Berkeley professor, artist, and author of The Pattern Language] and Richard Meier [who designed the Getty Museum in Los Angeles]. Great architects are the last of the purists. What they do is not derivative. 

When I think of my own work, most of it is built upon the efforts of others. The Unix work I did was derived from the work of Bell Labs and was more like a remodel than new construction. I'd really like to go and do something that's more like Java--that starts from a clean sheet and that isn't required by its compatibility with something else to be so complicated. Unfortunately, too few people get to do that in our industry. 

TELL ME A LITTLE MORE ABOUT THAT SIXTH PHASE, AFTER YOU WROTE THE WIRED ARTICLE. 

I came to view that article as my version of either public service or public penance. I eventually found that it's not fun talking about not-fun stuff all the time and trying to think of ways to shoot down arguments people use to make themselves happy but which aren't true. It's a very negative energy, and I just couldn't do it anymore. I mean, what good did Orson Welles do scaring the bejesus out of people with War of the Worlds? 

You see, the book initially was to be a warning book. But Sept. 11 rang a bell louder than any bell I could possibly ring about the perils of the world. And we've had other warning shots that have raised people's awareness of some of the things I was going to write about: We've had SARS, we've had mad cow disease, we've had weapons-of-mass-destruction as the word of the year. Just saying there's a problem is no longer sufficient, so now I'm thinking of more of a prescriptive book. And I have some ideas. 

If I were to propose one thing that we as the human race need to do, I'd say we can't let the future just happen anymore. If too many of the possible futures are catastrophes, we have to try to steer down the less dangerous paths. That implies that you somehow have to manage markets, geopolitics, and human behavior in the way we have become able to manage the scientific process. Those are inconceivable things. 

So what does it mean to apply design to the choice of our future? I don't have a good answer for that. It's an existential question: If we don't choose, the choice will be made for us in a way we won't likely want. But it's so much more convenient to go on pretending that the bad guys aren't out there and not acknowledging that all it would take would be some teenager making a minor modification to a virus like Sobig that could shut down all of corporate America. 

OR EVEN SOMETHING RANDOM. LOOK AT THE BIG POWER BLACKOUT IN THE NORTHEAST. 

That's another result of flawed design, because the grid wasn't really designed at all; it just evolved into what it is. Why did the state of Michigan, which had plenty of generating capacity to supply its own needs, go black because there was a problem in Ohio? Can you even build a grid like we have now that is reliable? It may not be possible. Can you secure it against people blowing up the power poles? That's what they did in Iraq. Pipelines and everything else are vulnerable too. 

So the real question is, What does it take to get past one of these evolutionary dead ends? One answer is an extinction, which is the kind of catastrophe nobody wants. The alternative is to design a whole new approach to ultimately replace the old one. 

Amory Lovins, a neighbor of mine, talks a lot about relying more on local generation of power than on these large centralized plants and the big power grid. If you get local, renewable generation using wind or solar, and you use more energy-efficient devices and hydrogen fuel cells or some other noncarbon technology that doesn't generate greenhouse gases, and develop some kind of power-storage technology so that you can have it in reserve rather than have to be so dependent, then you wouldn't even have to have the grid in many places. 

THE GRID WE HAVE IS PARTIALLY A RESULT OF REGULATION. DO YOU CONSIDER THAT TO BE THE ANTITHESIS OF DESIGN? 

It's a very clumsy form of design. It's about preventing bad things, but it also often makes presumptions about what is possible that turn out to be limiting, that prevent better solutions from emerging. So instead of prohibiting things, a much better way is to provide economic feedback reflecting true cost, so that things you don't want to happen cost more than the things you do want to happen. 

What is the actual cost of greenhouse gases, for instance? If you create a marketplace mechanism to solve that problem, you will probably end up creating wealth, and people would stop doing the stupid things they do now because it doesn't cost them anything. The Soviet Union collapsed not because of communism or central planning, but because of corrupt accounting. They couldn't organize the means of production because everybody was lying about everything. It was a game of fake numbers, and when you do that, you get crap for answers. 

WHY, REALLY, DID YOU LEAVE SUN? TO BECOME MORE INVOLVED IN PUBLIC ISSUES LIKE THESE? 

There's no ideal time to leave a company, but I feel now that all the projects and strategies at Sun are in good hands. Sure, I could've found another project that needed incubation. We had one to design a new kind of network data-storage architecture that involved 20 or 30 people that I could've stayed involved in. It doesn't have a code name that starts with a J, though. 

The problem with big projects like Java or rewriting Unix or designing the Sparc chip is that they require a five-year commitment. So when you come right down to it, I had to decide, "Do I want to push this big rock up a hill again?" Not this time. 

Bill Gates faced a similar choice with his Longhorn project. He probably has a lot of great ideas and all these brilliant people, but he also has this antecedent condition he has to take into account--keeping it somewhat in sync with the old Windows. So the beautiful vision may fail because it has to be compatible. I've often wondered why they can't, for once, do something new. I mean really, really new? But then, when I asked myself that same question, that's when I knew I had to leave Sun. 

Why [has] no one done a Sobig virus that wipes your hard disk 

clean? It's just one more line of code. Just one 

line. 

I view the [Wired] article as my version of either public service 

or public penance. It's not fun talking about not-fun stuff all 

the time. 

See also page 160 of same issue See also additional image(s) in Table of Contents of same issue. 

Caption: COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS BROENING COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS BROENING New chapter: Joy in his San Francisco home 


Document FORTU00020030930dzad0000p


More Like This

 Article 322 *******************    



Science & Technology: Energy

Japan's Power Play; NEC, Toshiba, and Sony are developing ever-smaller fuel cells to replace batteries 

By Irene M. Kunii in Tokyo 
726 words 
13 October 2003
BusinessWeek
90
Number 3853
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

The japanese are a tough lot to please when it comes to gadgets. So when NEC Corp.'s stand at the WPC Expo computer trade show in mid-September started to draw crowds like Tokyo's Shinjuku Station at rush hour, it was clear something extraordinary was on display. 

It turned out to be a fuel-cell-powered laptop. The 4 1/2-lb. computer can go five hours before its cell needs to be refilled with methanol. That performance beats all but the hardiest of laptops running on regular batteries. NEC plans to sell an even lighter fuel-cell machine late next year, and a year after that says it will release a model that can operate 40 hours on a single fill-up. Thanks to NEC's advances in nanotechnology, ``We're confident that fuel cells will become the main power source for mobile devices,'' says Yoshimi Kubo, the senior research manager overseeing the development of NEC's new laptop. ``It'll be a very big and lucrative market.'' 

Japan seems determined to dominate that business. NEC, Toshiba, Sony, and dozens of other Japanese companies are working feverishly to create ever-smaller cells to replace the rechargeable batteries in laptops, cameras, cell phones, and other gadgets -- now a $4.8 billion global market. In 2005, Tokyo Gas Co. plans to start outfitting thousands of homes with affordable fuel-cell units that generate hot water and energy. Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. already have nearly two dozen fuel-cell-powered cars on the streets, and there are nine filling stations in three Japanese cities where they can tank up. Even General Motors is here, providing FedEx Japan in July with its HydroGen3 car to make deliveries in Tokyo. ``Japan is a key area for developing and positioning fuel-cell cars for commercialization,'' says Raymond Grigg, chairman and CEO of GM Japan Ltd. 

Fuel-cell advocates say the devices are the future of energy. They produce electricity through a chemical reaction that combines oxygen with hydrogen. The oxygen comes from the air, and the hydrogen can be produced in a cell from methanol or natural gas. Or, as is the case in most fuel-cell-powered vehicles, pure hydrogen can be pumped into the cell -- and only water comes out of the tailpipe. The downside is that hydrogen is expensive to produce and difficult to store. 

STICKER SHOCK AHEAD 

Many initiatives are also under way in Europe and North America. Motorola Inc. is testing a methanol cell for phones and handhelds. And others are working on devices for homes and cars. But Japan stands out for its variety of commercial applications. In 10 years, the global market for fuel cells could hit $18.6 billion, and Japan will account for as much as a third of that, according to market researcher Allied Business Intelligence Inc. ``Japan has clear advantages,'' says Atakan Ozbek, Allied's director of energy research. The big money -- if the technology matures enough -- will almost certainly be in cars and buses. The Japanese government wants to see 50,000 such vehicles on the road by 2010, and 5 million a decade later. 

Plenty of hurdles remain -- not least of which is sticker shock. The cars cost nearly $1 million to build. Prices will come down if engineers can replace the expensive platinum used in today's cells with less costly alternatives. But there's another large obstacle: building enough filling stations to supply hydrogen for all those cars. 

Fuel cells are just what a resource-poor country like Japan needs -- a clean, efficient source of energy that doesn't require huge imports. So this year, the government has set aside $280 million to fund fuel-cell projects, up 40% over 2002. Ultimately, though, Japanese companies will have to wean themselves from state support and make fuel-cell production profitable. If they can, there will be a double dividend: a new stream of profits for Japan Inc. and cleaner air over the nation's cities. 

Photograph: ROAD WARRIOR FedEx makes Tokyo deliveries in a fuel-cell-powered vehicle PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU YAMANAKA/AFP/GETTY INC.| Illustration: Graph: Charging Up CHART BY LAUREL DAUNIS-ALLEN/BW 


Document BW00000020031009dzad0000q


More Like This

 Article 323 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: The Corporation: Strategies

Reinventing Invention; How GE's Scott Donnelly is overseeing a $100 million R&D makeover 

1,701 words 
13 October 2003
BusinessWeek
72
Number 3853
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Not long after Jeffrey R. Immelt took over as chief executive of General Electric Co. from Jack Welch, GE unveiled a new corporate identity. ``Imagination at Work'' replaced the slogan ``We Bring Good Things to Life.'' and GE kicked off a campaign focusing on its leading-edge technology, including space-age windmills made with exotic new materials and medical-imaging systems capable of rendering three-dimensional views inside a patient's body. 

Now, GE is injecting fresh energy into its focus on invention. The thrust is taking shape at the company's corporate research and development center on a ridge overlooking the Mohawk River in Niskayuna, N.Y, just south of Schenectady. Scott C. Donnelly, GE's senior vice-president for global research is overseeing the center's renovation. Worldwide, GE is spending $212 million to update company labs. The $100 million centerpiece will be state-of-the-art ``wet labs'' that are being grafted onto the original complex, which was built after World War II, and last upgraded 20 years ago. The new labs will help GE scale up research in genomics, proteomics, and nanotechnology. There's also an Adirondack-style lodge that can accommodate 40 execs and scientists. Ordered up by Immelt himself, this woodsy meeting center is designed to turn ordinary strategic planning retreats into invention incubators. ``We're turning up the heat on the whole culture of innovation,'' says Donnelly. 

In a corporate culture as famously quantitative as GE's, managing the vexingly intangible process of innovation will be a challenge. Donnelly, who took over at Niskayuna in 2000, trained for the task during a three-year stint as vice-president for technology operations at GE Medical Systems. In his current post, Donnelly manages a $359 million annual operating budget (up 4.3% from 2002), as well as a 2,300-person global research staff, including 550 at R&D centers in Shanghai, Bangalore (India), and Munich. Industries editor Adam Aston visited Niskayuna to learn more about Donnelly's efforts to upgrade and internationalize GE's R&D. 

What's the research focus at the new facilities? 

The new wing is dedicated to what we call wet chemistry -- that includes organic chemistry, biology, and other life-science disciplines. We've always had a few biologists around. But with the molecular medicine work, we're seeing a huge increase in the number of people in those areas. Historically, GE's role in medical imaging has always been about physics -- from William Coolidge, who invented the X-ray tube in 1913 [which made possible the first mass-produceable X-ray machines], to computed tomography, magnetic-resonance imaging, and digital X-rays. Now the future of health care looks like one big chemistry experiment. It's looking at actual biological functions, on a molecule-by-molecule level. 

What's going on in areas beyond health care? 

I'd say the advances will continue to come from material sciences. Look at detector materials -- the first medical X-ray tube -- or superalloys or advanced ceramics or thermal barrier coatings that make it possible to run aircraft engines and power systems at higher temperatures and higher efficiencies. All those kinds of things are fundamentally materials breakthroughs. 

Are you also rethinking the way the businesses engage with the R&D process? 

On a quarterly basis, we want to get the CEOs [from each GE division] -- along with their top technology advisers and their marketing guys -- together for a day or so with the top scientific specialists here. These are usually very rich, highly strategic, discussions and the technology piece is just a part of that. 

How do these sessions help? 

Look at John Rice at GE Power Systems. He's running a $20 billion business. They came here with their top leadership team and spent some time talking about hydrogen energy. We talk about what-ifs: What if hydrogen really takes off and begins to transform the energy sector? How does GE fit into it? Where should we be investing? We're an energy infrastructure company. We provide capital goods and services to that whole sector. 

Has GE's R&D budget grown as a result of this reorientation? 

The overall amount of R&D spending GE has been committing grew to $2.6 billion in 2002 [from $2.3 billion the year before]. The $100 million investment going into this lab will pay for a brand-new wing of labs, plus we're refurbishing the existing ones, which were built in the late 1940s and early 1950s. And we see some head count growth here. We've also grown in places like Bangalore and Shanghai. 

Is it a challenge to integrate communication and research efforts from different regions? 

Culturally, it's just not an issue. GE is a global company. We research and design stuff, we make stuff, and we sell stuff all around the world. Just walk through the halls here for a while. We have people here from over 40 countries, from China, India, Europe, Eastern Europe. When you see a list of names on a project, I dare you to figure out who's where. 

Yet there are growing worries about the flow of tech jobs to low-cost sites offshore. Do costs affect the allocation of research work between the U.S. and Asian research centers? 

Yes, we do get a cost advantage. Is it the primary motivator for me? Absolutely not. It's access to the greatest technical talent we can get. It's the ability to grow our net amount of R&D researchers. I don't get brownie points from Jeff [Immelt] at the end of the day by saying I spent less on R&D. What we get the money for is to come up with the big ideas. And another factor is the facilities, the capital requirements. Whether I have to buy a scanning electron microscope for New York or China or India, that's the same amount of money wherever you put it. 

How do you choose what to do where? 

The way we try to run the global labs is what I call ``geographically transparent.'' The location is kind of irrelevant. On a given project -- say a turbine -- the manager might have six blocks [more specialized subprojects that are tackled simultaneously]. One of those blocks might be in Bangalore -- that could be fluid dynamics modeling. And another of those blocks might be in Shanghai -- that could be a materials-science problem. And the other four could be here. The challenge is how to maximize the amount of R&D given the skills we have at different centers. 

Are there strengths in one center that don't exist elsewhere? 

To a degree. But it's not what you might guess. A lot of people equate India with software -- that's not our game. In India, what we have are PhDs in organic chemistry and physics, mechanical engineers, and so on. This is not a coding shop. We have people there doing world-class analytical modeling of turbines -- the emulation of a fan blade or a bird strike or a hail ingestion into a jet engine. This is at the cutting edge of computational complexity. In China, core material sciences are very strong. So is the knowledge of advanced manufacturing processes. If you want to explore different ways of making something, you might have a team there that's really focused on exploring the optimal way to manufacture a material. 

Great industrial R&D operations seem to be in decline. A few of the most famous -- like Xerox PARC [Palo Alto Research Center] -- failed to fulfill their promise. How do you avoid a similar fate? 

GE's got a great history of R&D along with the likes of IBM's Watson Research Center, Hewlett-Packard in Palo Alto, and the great Bell Labs. It's true a couple of the labs had brilliant people with huge passion. But they didn't capitalize on it because they didn't figure out how to take that resource and benefit the business. 

It's one of the things we're very sensitive about. And I wouldn't advertise us as perfect. We put an enormous premium on trying to figure out how not to have people off working exclusively on ``wild blue yonder'' kinds of stuff. We need some of that, but our ultimate measure of success is this: What is the impact on our business? Of course, you have to be patient. It can take 5 years or 10 from the time somebody comes up with that new molecule for a business to use it. 

Ultimately, though, the culture here is such that if your invention doesn't end up going to the marketplace with a GE sticker on it, then we've failed. It's that simple. Getting patents, publishing papers -- these are all important things, and I give the guys kudos for doing all that. But at the end of the day, I still sit down every year with Jeff [Immelt] and say: ``Look, here's the stuff.'' If the aircraft engine guys, or power, or medical, can't tell the business side what was born out of this place and the impact it's having in the business, then we're not relevant. 


 (available online)
Research Frontiers

With a $100 million upgrade to its storied R&D center, GE is on a quest
for the next blockbuster technologies

NOW                            NEXT

MEDICAL SYSTEMS                MOLECULAR MEDICINE
Doctors Digital X-rays         will be able to  see and alter sin-
and CT scans                   gle molecules of protein or DNA

ENERGY TECHNOLOGY              HYDROGEN ENERGY
High-efficiency                New gear will be needed to replace
electric turbines              trillions of dollars worth of
                               petroleum-based infrastructure

ADVANCED MATERIALS             NANOTECHNOLOGY
High-temp ceramics             Engineering on an atom-by-atom scale
and superalloys                will let scientists fabricate novel
                               materials to spec
  

Photograph: DONNELLY: ``We're turning up the heat on the whole culture of innovation'' PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD FRANCE 


Document BW00000020031009dzad0002w


More Like This

 Article 324 *******************    



Corporate Focus

Merck Looks Outside for Help --- With Big Patent Expiring, Drug Maker Snaps Up Technologies 

By Peter Landers 
827 words 
16 October 2003
The Wall Street Journal
B2
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

MERCK & CO. can no longer afford the luxury of pride. 

Once skeptical of outside research, the big drug maker is now buying technology at a rapid pace. It has closed on 34 deals with outside partners this year, up from just 10 in all of 1999, according to Chief Executive Raymond Gilmartin. 

The pace highlights Merck's need for new hits to replace its aging stable of blockbusters. The company's biggest drug, cholesterol fighter Zocor, is set to lose U.S. patent protection in 2006. After that, Merck is likely to lose most of the roughly $5.5 billion in revenue that Zocor now brings in annually. 

In the latest move, C Sixty Inc., a tiny Houston company, plans to announce this week a deal with Merck for rights to a drug based on the fullerene, a soccer ball-shaped molecule whose discoverers won the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1996. C Sixty executives said the deal will give Merck rights to study the drug in animals and the option to license it for commercial development. 

Licensing isn't new for Merck. Like all major drug makers, it has long scoured the world for promising compounds. One of its finds more than a decade ago was Fosamax, an osteoporosis drug discovered by a small Italian company that is projected to record about $2.8 billion in sales this year. 

But as Mr. Gilmartin acknowledged in a speech this week at a biotechnology conference in Dana Point, Calif., "Merck was not always the easiest partner to deal with. We had a reputation for wanting to do things our way, and only our way." 

Mr. Gilmartin said that in the past three years "the bureaucratic obstacles that once made it hard to work with us have been shattered." Merck has brought in new talent in key posts: Peter Kim, formerly at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, became head of research and development at the beginning of this year, and Mervyn Turner, a chemist who had worked in Merck's basic research labs, took over as head of global licensing in October 2002. 

"Is Merck changing its stripes? I think the answer is yes," said Philip Epstein, the chief executive of C Sixty. "They're throwing people and resources at this." 

It remains to be seen whether the strategy will work. Almost all of the drug deals made by Merck involve compounds that haven't been tested extensively in humans. Some rival companies prefer to make lower-risk bets by licensing drugs at a later stage. For example, GlaxoSmithKline PLC recently bought co-promotion rights to a drug for incontinence that has already been submitted to the Food and Drug Administration for approval and is likely to be on the market next year. 

Other Merck deals don't involve actual drugs but ways of finding drugs. For example, a deal with Alnylam Holding Co., announced in September, gives Merck access to Alnylam's technology in RNA interference, a hot field in medicine that studies ways to block the "expression," or activation, of disease-causing genes. 

The deal with C Sixty of Houston is another example of a high-risk bet on a new kind of drug. The fullerene on which the company's drugs are based consists of 60 carbon atoms. It is so named because the molecule's shape resembles the geodesic dome designed by Buckminster Fuller. 

Normally, the fullerene is like soot and can't be easily absorbed by the body, but C Sixty has modified the molecule so it can enter the body's cells and scavenge so-called free radicals. These loose electrons are thought to contribute to a variety of degenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, heart failure and diabetes. 

Mr. Epstein said it makes sense for Merck to get involved early in the development of the fullerene-related drugs, because it can use its expertise to decide which of the many possible uses should get first priority. 

He said the deal got a push from Merck's head of neuroscience, Dennis Choi, who researched fullerenes when he was head of the neurology department at Washington University in St. Louis. In a 1997 paper, Dr. Choi and colleagues said derivatives of the C-60 molecule "may have attractive therapeutic properties" in degenerative diseases of the brain. A Merck spokeswoman said Dr. Choi wasn't available to comment. 

--- 


                       Let's Make A Deal 
 
   Merck & Co. has stepped up alliances with small drug-research companies. 
 
   DATE: Feb. 13, 2003 
   PARTNER: MerLion Pharmaceuticals (Singapore) 
   DETAILS: Broad drug development alliance. 
 
   DATE: Feb. 18, 2003 
   PARTNER: Sunesis Pharmaceuticals 
   DETAILS: Alzheimer's drugs 
 
   DATE: June 23, 2003 
   PARTNER: Amrad (Australia) 
   DETAILS: Asthma biotech drugs 
 
   DATE: Sept. 9, 2003 
   PARTNER: Alnylam Holding 
   DETAILS: Gene-manipulation technology 
 
   DATE: October 2003 (planned) 
   PARTNER: C Sixty 
   DETAILS: Fullerene-based drugs 
 
   Sources: Merck; C Sixty 
    

Document J000000020031016dzag0005s


More Like This

 Article 325 *******************    



Developments to Watch: TRANSISTORS

NANOCHIPS MAY BE JUST AROUND THE CORNER 

Edited by Otis Port 
248 words 
27 October 2003
BusinessWeek
82
Number 3855
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

A major new technology will soon hit the memory-chip market, providing a path to storage capacities far beyond the limits now envisioned for 2015. Call it nanoRAM, for nanotube random-access memory. A couple of chipmakers could be cranking out prototypes next year, with mass production starting in 2005, according to the two partners that have just created the first samples using existing chipmaking equipment. 

The basic concept comes from Nantero Inc., a two-year-old startup in Woburn, Mass. To prove the concept, it teamed up with ASM Lithography, a leading supplier of equipment for ``printing'' chips. The main departure from ordinary procedures was laying down a thin layer of cylindrical carbon molecules known as nanotubes, instead of the usual modified-silicon layer that then gets carved up into myriad transistors. Depositing the nanotubes didn't slow down the processing, says Norbert Kappel, head of ASM's Special Applications group. And the cost of the nanotubes is a mere 0.1 cents per chip. 

Nantero CEO Greg Schmergel says that while today's litho tools create transistors consisting of thousands of nanotubes, ``we'll eventually get down to the level of addressing individual nanotubes.'' When a transistor needs only a single nanotube, he adds, chips will ``store terabits [trillions of bits] per square centimeter,'' or roughly a million times more than today's chips. But that may be a decade off. 

Document BW00000020031023dzar00007


More Like This

 Article 326 *******************    



Developments to Watch: TRANSISTORS

NANOCHIPS MAY BE JUST AROUND THE CORNER 

Edited by Otis Port 
248 words 
27 October 2003
BusinessWeek
82
Number 3855
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

A major new technology will soon hit the memory-chip market, providing a path to storage capacities far beyond the limits now envisioned for 2015. Call it nanoRAM, for nanotube random-access memory. A couple of chipmakers could be cranking out prototypes next year, with mass production starting in 2005, according to the two partners that have just created the first samples using existing chipmaking equipment. 

The basic concept comes from Nantero Inc., a two-year-old startup in Woburn, Mass. To prove the concept, it teamed up with ASM Lithography, a leading supplier of equipment for ``printing'' chips. The main departure from ordinary procedures was laying down a thin layer of cylindrical carbon molecules known as nanotubes, instead of the usual modified-silicon layer that then gets carved up into myriad transistors. Depositing the nanotubes didn't slow down the processing, says Norbert Kappel, head of ASM's Special Applications group. And the cost of the nanotubes is a mere 0.1 cents per chip. 

Nantero CEO Greg Schmergel says that while today's litho tools create transistors consisting of thousands of nanotubes, ``we'll eventually get down to the level of addressing individual nanotubes.'' When a transistor needs only a single nanotube, he adds, chips will ``store terabits [trillions of bits] per square centimeter,'' or roughly a million times more than today's chips. But that may be a decade off. 

Document BW00000020031029dzar00007


More Like This

 Article 327 *******************    



News: Analysis & Commentary: THE ECONOMY

JOBS: THE TURNING POINT IS HERE; It will take many months for the Great American Job Machine to fully crank up. But robust demand has oiled the gears, and the hum you hear is getting louder 

By Peter Coy in New York, with Robert D. Hof in San Mateo, Calif., Michael Arndt in Chicago, and bureau reports 
1,450 words 
27 October 2003
BusinessWeek
40
Number 3855
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

FUELED BY TAX CUTS AND low interest rates, the U.S. economy has been exceeding expectations on almost every front lately -- except job creation. Retail sales remain strong, according to an Oct. 15 Census Bureau report. Intel, General Motors, and Merrill Lynch have led a wave of companies beating third-quarter earnings forecasts. A stock-market surge is boosting the confidence of CEOs and small investors alike. Exports are up smartly, businesses are investing, and a surge of tax receipts is helping to reduce the budget squeeze across the country (page 42). Economists predict the Commerce Dept. will announce on Oct. 30 that gross domestic product grew in the third quarter at annual rate of between 5.5% and 6.5% -- the best since 1999. 

Job growth, however, has been the missing link. Although the U.S. economy created a modest 57,000 jobs in September, it lost jobs in the third quarter as a whole. In fact, the third quarter was a spectacular anomaly: the only time in at least 40 years in which the economy actually shed jobs while growing at a rate of 5.5% or better. In September, 9 million people were jobless. Nearly a quarter had been out of work for at least half a year. 

But here's the good news: The job market has almost surely turned the corner. In the months to come, the economy is likely to build on its September gain and generate more jobs. Early signs of a pickup, especially in the tech sector, are already showing up. On Oct. 14, Intel Corp. said profits more than doubled from a year earlier on a 20% revenue gain. The next day, IBM announced a 5% gain in operating earnings and predicted it would need to add 10,000 jobs next year in key skill areas, including services, hardware, and software. Economists and policymakers, once gloomy, are getting optimistic about a broader jobs resurgence as well. Initial claims for unemployment insurance in early October fell to an eight-month low of 382,000. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan is hopeful that the jobs market is turning up, while Federal Reserve Board Governor Ben S. Bernanke told Congress on Oct. 14 that he expected ``significant improvements'' in employment. 

What has changed? In a nutshell, demand is so robust that employers have reached a tipping point. They can't fill all the orders they're getting without hiring more workers. Beyond tech hiring, the stock-market rally signals future hiring in the financial services sector. And even manufacturing -- where outsourcing has taken a tremendous toll -- is hiring selectively as the global economy gains speed. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. estimates that world growth in the third quarter was the fastest in three years. 

LACK OF CONFIDENCE 

TO BE SURE, it will take many months for the Great American Job Machine to crank up fully. Labor markets turn slowly. And with the sustainable rate of productivity growth higher than it was a decade ago, it takes stronger economic growth than before to generate jobs. Industries such as textiles, low-tech electronics, and autos are likely to see continued job losses because of rapidly improving productivity or foreign competition. 

But don't worry about a repeat of the third quarter, when the lack of hiring was extreme by any standard. To get an idea of how big the jobs shortfall was, try comparing the third quarter with other recent quarters when the economy grew as strongly. Since 1960, there have been eight quarters when the economy grew at an annual rate between 5.5% and 6.5%. On average, employment in those quarters increased at a 3.4% rate. If history had repeated itself, the economy should have created 1 million nonfarm jobs in the third quarter. Instead, jobs fell nearly 150,000 from their second-quarter average, for a shortfall of about 1.2 million. 

The killer was lack of confidence. Manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers, disbelieving the strength of the recovery, squeaked by with selling goods off their shelves. As a result, the ratio of inventories to sales hit a record low in the quarter. Now, these companies have to restock -- which means more production and more jobs. 

SOFTWARE IS FIRMING UP 

NOWHERE IS SUCH news more welcome than in the hard-hit tech sector. The good news extends beyond Intel and IBM. The Labor Dept. says jobs in computer-systems design rose in September. Job losses seem to have stopped in software and data storage, among other areas. EMC Corp. in Hopkinton, Mass., which makes storage systems, has stabilized employment at 17,000 -- after a one-third decline in its payrolls since 2001. 

In manufacturing, just a partial revival in employment would go a long way toward ending the jobless recovery. Going by the historic pattern for similar growth spurts, the sector should have created more than 70,000 jobs in the third quarter. Instead, it lost more than 150,000. Manufacturing accounted for about 19% of the quarter's job shortfall, even though it accounts for only about 11% of all jobs. 

A cyclical rebound in demand won't bring back all those manufacturing jobs -- not with productivity growth and offshore competition so strong. But it will help. David Huether, chief economist at the National Association of Manufacturers, estimates that only half the factory jobs lost are gone for good. He predicts a rebound in industrial machinery, electronics and computers, transportation gear, and fabricated metals. The latest good news for the sector, on Oct. 15, was a sharp rise in the New York State manufacturing index measured by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 

FEELING FLUSH AGAIN 

IN THE SERVICE sector, too, companies are feeling stretched. On Oct. 3, the Institute for Supply Management reported growing backlogs of work in insurance, entertainment, business services, and construction, among other sectors. That, too, points to more hiring. Likewise, a pickup in retail sales is likely to trigger hiring at store chains, where 19,000 jobs were lost in the third-quarter. And financial services companies are feeling flush again. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up 19% so far this year, including a rise of 5% in the first half of October alone. On Oct. 15, Merrill Lynch & Co. CEO Stanley O'Neal, fresh from reporting higher-than-expected earnings, announced the end of a two-year salary freeze, raising hopes that new jobs will soon follow. And strengthening tax receipts should help strapped state and local governments, which lost more than 30,000 jobs in the third quarter -- when, if historical patterns had held, they should have added more than 140,000. 

How strong will the job recovery be? It's hard to tell, because more than ever before, employment growth comes from the creation of brand-new jobs. Creating work from scratch takes considerably longer than rehiring people to old ones, argue Erica L. Groshen and Simon M. Potter, economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in a recent paper. Employment won't really go gangbusters until innovation spawns new industries. Doug Henton, president of Collaborative Economics, a Mountain View (Calif.) consulting firm, sees the future in the nexus of information technology, biotech, and nanotechnology. 

These days feel a lot like the anxious mid-1990s. Back then, people worried that bad times were here to stay. What they didn't see were the good times right around the bend. 


 (available online)
A Jobless Recovery? That Depends

WHERE JOBS HAVE BEEN HARD TO COME BY...

SECTOR                               EMPLOYMENT CHANGE SINCE END OF RECESSION*
                                                (THOUSANDS)  (PERCENT)
Manufacturing                                      -1,269      -8%
Wholesaling                                        -161        -3
Telecommunications services                        -150        -12
Computer systems design and related services       -108        -9
Air transportation                                 -63         -11
Securities and investment                          -24         -3
Internet publishing and broadcasting               -6          -15


... AND WHERE THEY HAVE GROWN

SECTOR                               EMPLOYMENT CHANGE SINCE END OF RECESSION*
                                                (THOUSANDS)  (PERCENT)
Health care and social assistance                  540         4%
Temporary-help services                            110         5
Accommodations and food service                    110         1
Government                                         104         1
Construction                                       51          1
Commercial banking                                 29          2
Real estate                                        28          2

* November, 2001, to September, 2003
Data: Bureau of Labor Statistics
  

Photograph: CHARGED UP Checking the components on an EMC Clarion storage device PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN G. HENRY| Illustration: Chart: HIRING: THE RECOVERY'S LATE BLOOMER CHART BY ERIC HOFFMANN/BW 


Document BW00000020031029dzar0001u


More Like This

 Article 328 *******************    



Tiny Protein May Lead to Better Test for Prostate Cancer 

By Laura Johannes 
1,194 words 
4 November 2003
The Wall Street Journal
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

A CUTTING-EDGE research technique called proteomics is emerging as medical science's best hope for an alternative to the wildly inaccurate standard screen for prostate cancer. 

In the latest successful use of the technology -- which involves an exhaustive study of the proteins in human blood and tissues -- Harvard University researchers have discovered a tiny protein called PCa-24, which is found in tissues taken from men with prostate cancer, but not in similar samples from healthy men. The finding was reported in yesterday's online version of the journal Cancer. 

It is too early to tell, but scientists are hoping the protein is created by prostate-cancer cells, thus serving as a telltale sign of their presence. That, says researcher Brian Liu, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and at Brigham and Women's Hospital, "would be exactly what we want." 

If the Harvard protein proves as promising as it seems, a blood test could be commercially available within four years. Two companies -- closely held Correlogic Systems Inc. of Bethesda, Md., and Matritech Inc., of Newton, Mass. -- are racing to parlay proteomics discoveries from academic and government labs into commercially available prostate screens to hit the market next year. 

"We believe our marker is better and we plan to position it at a premium price," says Matritech Chief Executive Stephen D. Chubb. 

The standard blood test, which gained popularity in the 1980s, costs around $30 to $40. It measures levels of a protein called the Prostate Specific Antigen. However, PSA is often elevated in men without cancer. It also misses cancers: In a recent New England Journal of Medicine report, the PSA screen failed to spot 82% of cancers in men over 60. 

The impact of proteomics is "very exciting and very important," says Howard Parnes, chief of the prostate and urologic research group at the National Cancer Institute. But, he adds, more accurate tests for cancer won't solve a fundamental problem in prostate-cancer treatment -- what he calls the "inherent harm of overdiagnosis." 

Sixteen percent of men develop prostate cancer in their lifetimes, but it is usually slow-growing, and only 3% die of it. The new test is "a two-edged sword," Dr. Parnes says. "The more prostate cancer you find, the more that will be treated." Surgery to remove the prostate causes incontinence about 30% of the time and impotence in 70%. 

While the next-generation tests' improved detection wouldn't solve the problem of which cancers require treatment, it would cut down on unnecessary biopsies -- unpleasant procedures in which needle gun is used to take a sample of prostate tissue. 

The main tool for proteomics research is a machine called a "mass spectrometer." It costs about $200,000, "as much as a house," says Harvard's Dr. Liu. Mass spectrometers have been around for years, but better software has dramatically improved their utility for proteomics, he says. 

The Harvard team started with prostate tissues from 17 men with cancer, and 12 who merely had enlarged prostates. An enlarged prostate is a common, often-noncancerous condition that often causes a positive result on the PSA test. 

The team isolated cells from the various tissues, ground them up and put them on a slide. They put the slide into the machine, which fired a laser beam at it. The laser heated the proteins on the slide so intensely that the proteins vaporized and triggered a detector that registers their vaporization. The smaller proteins vaporized the fastest, so the machine gave scientists a precise readout of which size proteins were present in each tissue sample. The easiest way to identify a protein is by its size. 

The result: A tiny protein, PCa-24, did not exist in any of the noncancerous tissues. But it was present in 16 of the 17 cancerous tissues, or 94%. The scientists have just begun blood tests of live human patients -- so far about 10 or 15 -- and so far PCa-24 seems to predict cancer with stunning accuracy. Scientists know little about the protein except its size; further work is under way to purify it and study it. 

At the Clinical Proteomics Program, a joint effort of the National Cancer Institute and the Food and Drug Administration, instead of looking for single proteins that could indicate the presence of cancer, researchers are examining all the proteins in the body, and training a powerful computer to find subtle patterns that indicate cancer, says program co-director Emanuel F. Petricoin. 

"It's basically like a bar code, like your Cap'n Crunch cereal at the grocery store, except with a million lines," Dr. Petricoin says. "Somewhere buried in this pattern there would be a diagnostic combination of not just one or two or three biomarkers, but a whole handful." Dr. Petricoin believes this method is most promising because there may not be a single smoking gun in many men with cancer. 

Correlogic, in partnership with Dr. Petricoin's team, is developing an ovarian-cancer test that is expected to hit the market late this year or early next year, says Chief Executive Peter Levine. A similar prostate screen could be available later next year. The focus will be the "gray zone" where the PSA reading is too high to be normal, but too low to provide a firm indicator of cancer. Both tests, says Mr. Levine, will initially be sold as "home-brew" lab screens that don't require FDA approval. 

Matritech, meanwhile, has entered into a deal with mass-spectrometer maker Bruker Biosciences Corp., of Billerica, Mass., to create a method for screening thousands of blood samples quickly and accurately -- as many as 1,000 in an eight-hour shift. The test would look for a protein, called Nuclear Matrix Protein 48, which Johns Hopkins research has found to be present in cancerous prostates but not in healthy ones. 

In the long run, proteomics may help create a test that distinguishes fast-growing cancers from indolent ones. Dr. Petricoin's lab, along with Ohio State University physicist Mauro Ferrari, is developing a Star Trek-like technology in which "nanoparticles" would be crafted that would bind to telltale proteins in the blood. The probes would then be collected, perhaps by using a magnet on the patient. This technique would allow scientists to find proteins present in such small amounts that the mass spectrometer would miss them. Some of these proteins might serve as a warning that a cancer will spread quickly. "We've just started the odyssey," says Dr. Petricoin. "I really think it is going to be quite astonishing what we can do." 

--- 


                           Flawed Screening 
 
   Some facts about prostate cancer and the PSA test: 
 
   -- In 2000, 31,078 men in the U.S. died from prostate cancer. 
 
   -- False positives occur primarily in men age 50 or older. In this 
age group, 15 of every 100 men will have elevated PSA levels. Of 
these, 12 will be false positives and three will turn out to have 
cancer. 
 
   -- False negatives occur in roughly 25% to 30% of PSA tests. 
 
   Sources: National Cancer Institute, NCHS 
   

Document J000000020031104dzb40002b


More Like This

 Article 329 *******************    



Developments to Watch: NANOTECH

THE NEXT FRONTIER: NANO-SLINKIES 

Edited by Otis Port 
166 words 
17 November 2003
BusinessWeek
145
Number 3858
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

NO, THE HELICAL shapes shown below aren't DNA, although they're almost as tiny. A DNA helix is about 2 nanometers across; these metal strands are at least 10-nm wide -- still a smidgen next to a human hair's 100,000-nm diameter. Despite their size, these ``nanosprings'' could do some heavy lifting in future devices, says Zhong Wang, director of Georgia Institute of Technology's Center for Nanoscience & Nanotechnology. 

Made from zinc oxide, the springs are piezoelectric -- meaning they can transform mechanical motion into electricity or vice-versa. Ultrasensitive nanospring detectors could flash a signal when perturbed by minute forces such as otherwise imperceptible flows of a liquid or gas. Conversely, a nanospring could expand in response to an electrical signal and push a microdrop of insulin from a capsule implanted in a diabetic patient. First, though, Wang's team has to devise ways of calibrating the springs' properties. 

Document BW00000020031113dzbh0000i


More Like This

 Article 330 *******************    



Technology

Bright Ideas; A handful of young companies have new ways to harness solar energy. 

Elizabeth Corcoran 
1,175 words 
24 November 2003
Forbes
222
Volume 172 Issue 11
English
(c) 2003 Forbes Inc. 

A handful of young companies are producing new ways to harness solar energy. 

The sun never shines in the basement laboratory on the University of California, Berkeley campus, where graduate students Delia Milliron and Ilan Gur spend their days. But that isn't stopping them from doing some of today's most advanced work in solar-cell technology. 

In one corner of the lab Gur brews toxic ingredients to make a half-vial of crystals, each measuring a millionth or so of an inch, of cadmium selenide, a light-sensitive semiconductor. He covers a postage-stamp-size piece of glass with the nanocrystal goop and hands it over to Milliron. In a mini-vacuum-chamber she adds tiny strips of aluminum. Finally they carry the tiny chip into a black room and shine light on it:The chip spews back power--1.5 milliwatts for this fledgling solar cell, which on some bright future day could translate to 15 watts per square meter. 

Even brighter days are ahead. The pursuit of an improved photovoltaic cell, the cornerstone of solar energy production, has the whiff of a gold rush about it. Since 1999 shipments of photovoltaic cells and modules have been growing an average of 30% a year, reaching $3.5 billion in 2002, according to Clean Edge, a San Francisco research group. 

Manufacturers, led by Japanese companies such as Sharp, are convinced that within sevenyears traditional solar-cell technology will deliver power as cheaply and conveniently as steam turbines. The economics of solar, once derided as hippie wishful thinking, are getting pretty compelling. "When I started in the early 1970s, the going price for solar modules was about $200 per watt," recalls Arthur Rudin, director of engineering for Sharp's solar systems division in Huntington Beach, Calif. "Today the average price for solar modules is about $5 a watt." 

That is, a solar cell that generates a watt of power when the sun is at its peak for four hours a day sells for about $5. Figure in night, clouds, winter, various supporting hardware and the depreciable lives of cells, and you find that sun-made electricity is still pretty expensive, between 20 cents and 50 cents per kilowatt-hour. Get the $5 cost down to $1, though, and the sun could compete with natural gas. 

The best commercial solar cells today convert 15% of sunlight into electricity, but they are made of brittle, expensive materials such as silicon. Cells can be made from cheaper, more malleable plastics, but those typically now turn a mere 3% of light into electricity. "We know it's possible to do better," contends Paul Alivisatos, the chemist who oversees that lab at UC-Berkeley. 

In March 2002 Alivisatos put his reputation--and his venture capitalists' money--where his mouth is, turning over much of his research to a Palo Alto firm called Nanosys. The company has amassed $75 million and is devoting much effort to figuring out how toembed nanofilaments of semiconductors in cheap, bendable plastic sheets. Nanosys' goals: 10% efficiency, $1 per watt. 

Solar energy cells are typically made of crystalline silicon, the kind used in computer microprocessors, sandwiched between electrodes (see box).Silicon's orderly atomic structure allows electrons to shoot rapidly through the crystal to the electrodes. But silicon is expensive and must be processed in elaborate clean-room facilities, just like computer chips. Organic materials such as light-absorbing polymers are easier and cheaper to process, but typically fritter away 97% of the sun's energy because the electrons must navigate a tortuous path. 

Solar entrepreneurs have many ways to attack the problems. In Los Gatos, Calif. a nine-person startup called Solaicx is building a furnace for making cheap crystalline silicon substrate. Pour in elemental silicon and out will come little bricks that are the foundation material for 90% of today's solar modules. "We have far less waste than the usual manufacturing process, lower labor costs--we're just attacking every factor of production," says Robert Ford, chief executive of the company. 

He says that Solaicx's furnace may be able to cut the cost of making wafers by as much as 50% when the company is in full-scale production, about two years from now. He bets that Solaicx will make it possible for solar modules to generate power at 8 cents per kilowatt-hour by 2007. 

Nanosys and two other new firms, Konarka and Nanosolar, are taking the radical approach of replacing chunky solar-cell modules with rolls of flexible plastic that have photovoltaic elements built in. "You don't have to invent a new factory to do this. You use coating and printing machines," says William Beckenbaugh, chief executive of Konarka. Production costs would drop by maybe 80%. 

Which light-sensitive nanomaterials to use? Nanosys' solar-cell work is based on Alivisatos' tinkering with so-called nanorods in his Berkeley lab. When embedded in plastic, the rods act like roads for the electrons, shortening their route toward the electrode andproducing power more efficiently. Early batches of nanorods were as organized as pickup sticks. In a happy accident Milliron and other Berkeley postdocs made an errant batch of nanorods that looked like jacks--with four legs--rather than rods. No matter which end was up, one leg always pointed toward the electrode. Another perk:Nanorods can be "tuned" to absorb light from different parts of the spectrum just by growing them bigger or smaller. Although Nanosys is still exploring just the right shape for its nanorods, it has committed to a deal with Matsushita Electric Works to make plastic photovoltaic laminate for materials like Spanish-style roof tiles, slated for the Japanese market by late 2006. 

In Lowell, Mass. two-year-old Konarka is using titanium dioxide nanocrystals coated with a thin layer of a light-sensitive dye. The dye-sensitized solar cells suck up photons even in dim light. Konarka's work is based on a decade of research by Michael Graetzel at the Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne. Konarka's plastic-based solar modules have already shown efficiencies of up to 6.5%, beating the scores of thin- film (or amorphous) silicon solar cells, Beckenbaugh says. (For a story on a thin-film enthusiast, see p. 86.) Konarka has teamed up with Groupe Electricité de France, ChevronTexaco and Eastman Chemical to make products by 2005. Earlier this year Aisin Seiki, in Japan, demonstrated a solar module that's more efficient than the best silicon versions and can be made for one-tenth the cost. 

Nanosolar, in Palo Alto, is building "brushes" of semiconducting metal oxide nanowires that it says improve efficiency even more. Its work is based, in part, on technology developed at Sandia National Laboratories, with the help of former students from Alivisatos' laboratory. R. Martin Roscheisen, the company's founder, says Nanosolar has a working prototype and plans to raise funds to build a factory. 

With reporting by Benjamin Fulford. 

Document FB00000020031107dzbo0001c


More Like This

 Article 331 *******************    


Features/Cover Stories/Economy

Why Tech Is Still The Future ; It seems almost irresponsible to say so, in this sober post-bubble age. But the information revolution really is leading us into decades of prosperity. An essay by one of the country's foremost economic thinkers, W. BRIAN ARTHUR. 

W. Brian Arthur 
2,505 words 
24 November 2003
Fortune
119
English
Copyright (c) 2003 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

The strength of the American economy over the next 20 years depends largely on our ability to keep our productivity growing. And productivity grows when a large set of novel technologies changes business practices and creates new industries. Interest rates, deficits, Federal Reserve policies--those will all make a difference, of course, but they won't be the driving force. That force will be technology and its ability to transform the economy. It's too early for biotech and nanotech to transform anything-- their time has not yet arrived. So the main hope for future economic golden eras remains that tarnished cluster of technologies we call information technology. 

Does information technology still have the oomph to power the economy? Its critics tell us no--that the computer's days of greatness are over. "The IT buildout is much closer to its end than its beginning," says Nicholas G. Carr in a recent article in Harvard Business Review. "The opportunities for gaining IT-based advantage are already dwindling." And Oracle's Larry Ellison declares that the IT industry "is as large as it's going to be." 

If you see the digital revolution as the adoption of digital devices or the buildout of its Internet infrastructure, you would have to agree. You'd have to ask just how many more teraflops and servers and fiber-optic cables business really needs. But that is a limited way to look at information technology. It is better to see the digital revolution as merely the latest in a series of historical technology revolutions. In the past each of them has gone through a predictable sequence of initial technological turbulence, media glamour, and investment boom. Then a crash. After the crash the revolution seems to be finished, but in each case there follows a massive buildout in which the new technology deeply transforms the economy and produces decades of prosperity. Britain's railway revolution underwent its investment frenzy in the mid-1840s; then a crash in 1847. There followed a pattern we would recognize today: disgraced executives hauled before government inquiry boards, stocks worth 15% of their peak value, a collapse in investment. Yet in the decades after the crash, track miles in Britain increased by a factor of ten. In 1859 the U.S. went through an echo of Britain's experience. "Our railroad system has cost more than $1 million and has brought ruin upon nearly everyone connected with it, the nation included," Henry Carey Baird, an economic commentator, said at the time. But railroads in the U.S. in the next four decades increased their track mileage by a factor of eight. 

More than that, railroads became an engine of growth: They brought a whole new era of economic expansion. They opened the Western states to commerce with the rest of America, they helped bring a massive steel industry into being, and they cheapened the economy's inputs--the iron ore, timber, leather, and other raw materials that industry needed. Such structural changes happened gradually, and at the time were almost invisible. But they were powerful. In 1860, before the railroad buildout, by international standards the United States was a backwater economy. Some 40 years later it was the largest economy in the world. 

The information revolution, like the railroad revolution before it, is causing deep structural transformations in the economy-- three transformations in particular. 

First, with the arrival of networks of all kinds--wired and wireless--everything is getting connected: devices, systems, machines, business processes, even networks themselves. Information technology's task these days is to get these items to "converse" seamlessly and remotely with one another. As a result processes that were carried out by humans 15 years ago now become interactions among devices that talk with one another, figure appropriate action, and execute. 

Aircraft navigation used to consist of a cockpit crew member doing hand calculations and passing them to the pilot. Now it is a conversation among an onboard GPS system, several stationary-orbit satellites, ground stations, and an aircraft-control system. Architectural design was formerly an interaction between a human and a physically drawn design. Now much of it becomes a conversation among a CAD program, a digital rendering of the building, a database that tracks the design's materials and costs, and further databases of building regulations. "In the 1980s," says Paul Saffo, director of the Institute for the Future in Menlo Park, Calif., "business was about people talking to other people. Now it's about machines talking to machines." 

Second, digital technology is making business smarter. Cheap sensors--tiny processors that can see, listen, and pass messages wirelessly to one another in sensor networks--are becoming available. When attached to grocery items, trucks, or machines in factories, they too can converse--and collectively provide intelligent action. Savi Technology of Sunnyvale, Calif., has added sensors to the containers the Defense Department ships to its troops worldwide, including the Middle East. Each sensor tag stores a list of its container's contents, its current location, and its planned routing. When a container passes through a port-- Rotterdam, say--its tag wirelessly senses it, updates its whereabouts, and alerts the next nodes in the Defense Department's supply chain. Those alert further control points to expect its arrival. "No part of the system is necessarily that smart," says Lance Trebesch, Savi's vice president of security. "But the overall system is very, very smart." The U.S. General Accounting Office estimates that if the Defense Department had had such a supply chain in effect during the Gulf war, it would have saved $2 billion by keeping better track of shipments and inventory. 

We are so used to such advances that we scarcely notice them. But consider their consequences. Before the digital revolution, businesses took in raw materials, processed them, and sold their output to other businesses. Each was pretty much a stand-alone unit in an input-output economy. Today, with suppliers, production processes, customers, and shipments all digitally connected, the economy is becoming a vast collection of automatic conversations, with myriad devices sensing, querying, and messaging one another-- and taking action. 

Which brings us to our third transformation: Digital technology is helping birth completely new subindustries. That would not happen if traditional industries merely adopted computation to enhance their existing tasks. But industries don't adopt information technology; they encounter it. That is, they come up against information technology in a way that changes them. And in doing so, they combine some of their operations with some of digitization's to create novel activities--and new industries. Thus, the movie business encounters digitization and uses it to endlessly morph images, warp them, composite them, color-saturate them. The result is Shrek, the Matrix movies, and an entirely new digital special-effects subindustry. The banking industry encounters digitization and uses it to figure smart combinations of options, futures, swaps, and other derivatives. That creates modern financial-risk management, and much of the huge financial- derivatives industry. The pharmaceutical industry uses digital operations to explore molecular combinations for the design of new drugs. Traditional fields in science create new subfields that way too. Genetics combines molecular biology with digital manipulation to create genomics--and in turn a potentially large future industry built upon gene diagnostics and gene therapies. What digitization provides, par excellence, is functionalities--operations carried out on things. They are not merely traditional operations speeded up by computers. Many--GPS navigation, for instance--are novel operations created by digitization. And impossible without it. 

At its heart, the information revolution is about transformation- -transformation of the very structures and processes by which the economy works. The productivity statistics corroborate that. Since 1995 output per hour has grown 2.5% annually, with the most computer- intensive industries posting the greatest gains. Even in the gloom of last year, productivity--think of it as an index of change in business practices--rose 2.8%. 

We can expect such growth to continue because it will take decades for the digital transformation to work through. 

One thing I've learned from looking at past technology revolutions is that the deeper the transformation, the more slowly it takes place. Electric motors became available around 1880. At that time all machines in a factory were powered by a single, lumbering, steam-driven motor. The new electric motors could each power a single machine--a weaving loom, for example--allowing flexibility and potential cost savings. But their proper use required redesigning factories and production processes, and that took more than 40 years. Economic transformation is slow not because it requires new equipment but because it requires new--and often not obvious--ways to organize business. 

Who will benefit from the digital transformation? Technology companies will, of course, but only to some degree. They are mainly the suppliers of tools. The main beneficiaries will be the rest of the economy--the Wal-Marts, Fords, and FedExes of business that use the new technology most effectively and intelligently. 

There's one dark spot--at least for the U.S.--in this positive picture. Technology itself is steadily migrating offshore. Countries that once seemed unlikely producers of high tech--India, China, Finland, Ireland--are gaining markets in everything from the production of digital processors to cellphones to software. That seems to endanger America's international competitive position, but I don't think the U.S. should try to prevent it. For one thing, the U.S. needs good trading partners, and prosperous neighbors make politically stable neighbors. 

But more than that, as the U.S. endures a never-ending squeeze at the lower end of advanced technology, I believe it will retain its position at the top. One reason is that advances in technology proceed from advances in science, and the U.S. has sufficient leadership there to carry it for several decades more. 

Another is that the creation of advanced technology--and I mean the bringing into being of truly high-level, on-the-edge, novel technology, and not just the manufacture of it--cannot simply be put in place at any time by any country. The ability to generate that kind of technology builds over decades. It's a tradition that achieves a momentum and stays rooted in particular places. Real high tech is not mere knowledge lifted from technical journals and applied to some purpose; it is craft--deep craft--rather like the practice of cooking at the Cordon Bleu school in Paris or of making violins in the 1700s in Cremona, Italy. What counts is knowing what precise methods work, why they work, what parameter settings to use, what new principles look promising to cut through the inevitable obstacles, what paths to pursue next. "What's also really useful is knowing what doesn't work--and that's never published," says Mark Yim, who leads an advanced robotics group at PARC (formerly Xerox PARC), the legendary technology lab in Palo Alto. 

That sort of expertise is not just raw knowledge, publicly known and easily transferable. It is a collection of knowings--of 1,001 particular details and methods--that resides implicitly in people's minds and is closely guarded. It builds upon itself within small groups in particular high-tech labs and in particular localities, so that once a region--or a country for that matter--gets ahead in a set of specific advanced technologies it becomes difficult to challenge. The detailed expertise needed to push the edge is simply not available outside. "People have tried to replicate PARC and its culture in the past," says Johan de Kleer, manager of PARC's systems and practices lab, "but nobody has succeeded." Once technologies become more routine, of course, they are easy to reconstruct, and other places can develop them. 

That tells me that the U.S. can retain its leadership in the new important technologies, and therefore its international competitive position, provided that it pays close attention to education and advanced science, and to its small but potent high-tech cultures. Of course, there will still be competition. Other countries do have first-rate science bases and will certainly challenge the U.S. in particular technology markets. But when it comes to the deep craft of technology, it's America's game to lose. 

When technology crashed a few years ago, the glamour of digital technologies wore off, and it will never come back. The new period will be one of hard work. But beneath the surface storms and uncertainties, the digitization of business is steadily transforming the economy, and the next two decades will see continually rising productivity, increasing growth, and the inception of new industries. That warrants a return of quiet, well- grounded confidence. But not complacency: The U.S. can always flub its advantage by careless government policies and inadequate attention. 

What is going on, like all deep change, is slow, almost unnoticeable. But it is not the mere adoption of computing, nor the building of an information infrastructure. It is something more profound--the building of a neural system for the economy. It parallels the Industrial Revolution, whose machines provided energy sources--a muscular system, if you like--for the economy. Of the two revolutions, the digital one will turn out to be deeper. And it is still only beginning. 

W. BRIAN ARTHUR is the Citibank professor at the Santa Fe Institute. His website is www.santafe.edu/arthur. 

SO, WHAT DO YOU THINK? 

"October has been our busiest month ever. We just started construction on our second location. But for the previous ten months, our numbers haven't changed. I used to run lounges, bars. In this business, if you have a decent venue, when things are good, people drink. When things are bad, people drink more, even during the recession. I go out quite a bit. I'm a socialite here in Boston. I go into a casino--whether it's last year or this year, there's the same amount of people. I mean, people are gambling. People are drinking. It doesn't really seem like a recession, but everyone talks about it as if it is." --TIM PANAGOPOULOS Owner, Osushi Restaurant Group, Boston 

With the arrival of networks of all kinds--everything is being connected--EVEN NETWORKS THEMSELVES. 

What's going on now is the slow, barely perceptible building of a NEURAL SYSTEM FOR THE ECONOMY. 

See also cover story of same issue See also additional image in Table of Contents of same issue. 

TWO COLOR ILLUSTRATIONS: ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN HERSEY B/W PHOTO: ROBERT YARNALL RICHIE THE RAILROADS boomed, crashed, and then had a golden age. COLOR PHOTO A WORKER lays an undersea fiber-optic cable in Brazil. 


Document FORTU00020031111dzbo0000s


More Like This

 Article 332 *******************    



Supporters Hope Law Will Boost Nanotechnology

By Antonio Regalado 
347 words 
4 December 2003
The Wall Street Journal
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Proponents of nanotechnology hope a bill that President Bush signed into law yesterday will set the stage for the sector's rapid growth. 

The bill authorizes $3.7 billion in spending over four years for research on nanotechnology, which deals with manipulating and designing materials at the scale of individual molecules or atoms. The legislation seeks to coordinate research being carried out by a number of federal agencies, including the Department of Energy and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, creating a comprehensive road map for nanotechnology's development in the U.S., as well as a new agency to oversee federal investment. 

Although spending on nanotechnology has increased 83% since 2001, the bill, known as the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, provides few new funds. Instead, the bill's authorization reflects the investment levels in nanotechnology research already projected by 10 federal agencies. 

The legislation was supported by large corporations and investors who hope that continued high levels of government funding for research will help turn nanotechnology into a booming industrial sector. "It's tremendously important for filling the scientific pipeline, stimulating activity, and supplying deal flow," said Josh Wolfe, a partner with Lux Capital, an investment firm. 

The NanoBusiness Alliance, a New York-based trade group formed by Mr. Wolfe and its current executive director, F. Mark Modzelewski, is credited for conceiving the legislation, which passed both the House and Senate by wide margins. 

According to the alliance, International Business Machines Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and General Electric Co. lent support to the measure. All of the companies have in-house nanotechnology research, aimed at fundamental improvements to computing technology, industrial coatings and other fields. 

The bill calls for a new National Nanotechnology Coordination Office to oversee the program. The bill calls on the Department of Commerce to carry out a study of America's competitiveness in the sector, as well as for research on potential downsides such as increased pollution. Japan and the European Union also are increasing their investments in nanotechnology research. 

Document J000000020031204dzc40001e


More Like This

 Article 333 *******************    



Small-Stock Focus

Stamps.com, Sylvan Learning Systems Decline 

By Cynthia Schreiber Dow Jones Newswires 
803 words 
4 December 2003
The Wall Street Journal
C8
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- After early strength, small-capitalization stocks underperformed the broad market as investors opted to book gains after recent highs. 

Among the weakest industry performers, the consumer-services group took hits after a downgrade of large-cap H&R Block and a drop in large-cap Career Education. Stamps.com declined 40 cents, or 6.3%, to $6, Sylvan Learning Systems shed 1.42, or 4.4%, to 30.65, and Sotheby's Holdings (NYSE) fell 44 cents, or 3.4%, to 12.57. 

Funeral-home operator Service Corp. International (NYSE) resisted the declines, rising 49 cents, or 10%, to 5.34, after settling a class-action lawsuit that alleged negligence and misconduct in the management of two cemeteries in Florida. 

Tire stocks were the session's top percentage gainers. Goodyear Tire & Rubber (NYSE) rose 73 cents, or 11%, to 7.52, after UBS Investment Research upgraded the stock to "neutral" from "reduce," saying a bond deal now seems possible, which would push potential liquidity issues further into the future. Cooper Tire & Rubber (NYSE) added 45 cents, or 2.2%, to close at 20.50. 

Small stocks initially followed the broader market higher after a better-than-expected report on worker productivity. But traders said concerns that stocks have risen too far, too fast caused some investors to pull back later in the session. 

"Investors are coming to the tail end of the year and are looking to lock in gains," said Brian Pears, head equity trader at Victory Capital Management. 

The Russell 2000 Index lost 8.41, or 1.52%, to 545.19, and the Standard & Poor's SmallCap 600 index shed 3.94, or 1.46%, to 265.29. The Nasdaq Composite Index of large-cap and small-cap stocks fell 19.82, or 1%, to 1960.25. 

Miners declined, with Cleveland-Cliffs shedding 45 cents, or 1.1%, to 39.17, after saying the shutdown of a kiln at an iron-ore pelletizing plant in Tilden, Mich., will result in a 2003 production loss of almost 300,000 tons. 

Visteon (NYSE) rose 84 cents, or 10%, to 9.01, leading gains among auto-parts makers. Morgan Stanley said the company's current talks with Ford Motor, designed to improve Visteon's competitiveness, could result in an agreement by the end of this year. 

Drug stocks edged higher following Merck & Co.'s upbeat forecast. Praecis Pharmaceuticals advanced 18 cents, or 2.4%, to 7.73, and Perrigo gained seven cents, or 0.5%, to 15.42. 

Bucking a modest climb by software stocks, Forgent Networks lost 47 cents, or 14%, to 2.79, after reporting a first-quarter net loss of 10 cents a share, compared with net income of four cents a share a year earlier. 

Nanogen surged 1.95, or 51%, to 5.74, as the San Diego company said it received a U.S. patent that will broaden its intellectual property in the emerging field of nanotechnology. 

Crossroads Systems climbed 70 cents, or 26%, to 3.35, as the Austin, Texas, computer-storage-networking company reported a sharply narrower loss for its fourth quarter, which analysts credited to the company's cross-licensing deal with Hitachi Ltd. 

C-Cor.net fell 1.68, or 14%, to 10.75, after Credit Lyonnais Securities downgraded the stock to "add" from "buy," saying the State College, Pa., communications company's shares offer limited upside after their recent rally. 

China's Qiao Xing Universal Telephone jumped 2.07, or 24%, to 10.58, after saying unit Qiao Xing Communication Industry expects a substantial rise in profit and sales from fixed-line telephones in 2003 compared with 2002. 

RehabCare Group (NYSE) rose 1.38, or 7.7%, to 19.25, after J.P. Morgan upgraded the stock to "overweight" from "underweight," saying the St. Louis health-services company should see strong sequential improvement in fourth-quarter earnings because of cost cuts. 

PDI, an Upper Saddle River, N.J., health-care-marketing company, fell 2.09, or 6.8%, to 28.78, after Jefferies & Co. downgraded the stock to "hold" from buy on valuation concerns after a 52% run-up in the stock's price since Oct. 30. 

Descartes Systems Group declined 33 cents, or 10%, to 2.93, as investors appeared unimpressed with the Canadian Internet-services provider's latest quarterly results and forecast. 

Raindance Communications dropped 31 cents, or 12%, to 2.34, after Pacific Growth Equities downgraded the stock to "equal weight" from overweight, predicting disappointing first-quarter guidance from the Louisville, Colo., Internet-communications-services provider, as license revenue dwindles. 

Volume on the Nasdaq was 2.18 billion shares. Decliners outnumbered advancers by 2,051 to 1,125. 

Document J000000020031204dzc40000l


More Like This

 Article 334 *******************    


Features/Design: Products of the Year

The 25 Best Products of the Year 

Julie Schlosser and Kate Bonamici 
1,861 words 
8 December 2003
Fortune
188
English
Copyright (c) 2003 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

As the previous story shows, great consumer-product design is no longer hard to find. It's everywhere--from toilet plungers to espresso machines. A terrific design might be remarkable for sheer simplicity. It might use revolutionary materials. It might change the way you attack an age-old problem, like opening a bottle or warming your hands. Ideally, it does all those things. 

For this list, we considered only mass-produced products that first hit the U.S. market in 2003. They had to be aimed at consumers, not businesses. They had to be items you can touch and hold (software doesn't count). And while they could be iterations of earlier designs, they had to scream "new" pretty loudly. (That's why we regretfully disqualified the latest versions of Apple's iPod and TaylorMade's golf clubs: When you look at them, you feel you've seen them before.) 

Along the way we sought the advice of dozens of experts: curators such as the Museum of Modern Art's Paola Antonelli; independent designers, including Newdealdesign's Gadi Amit; cutting-edge retailers such as Murray Moss of New York City's Moss; and design enthusiasts of all stripes. 

Here are the winners. 

on the road 

INMOTION SPEAKERS 

DESIGNER Altec Lansing Technologies with ION Design WHY THEY'RE SO COOL These battery-powered, paperback book--sized speakers are the iPod's dream home. They look sharp, travel well, and perform like rock stars. WHO LOVES THEM FORTUNE tech guru Peter Lewis: "They're among the first things I unpack when I get to the hotel room." PRICE $149; apple.com 

NOKIA 6800 

DESIGNER Nokia WHY IT'S SO COOL Closed, it looks like a regular cellphone with a gorgeous color screen. Open it up, and there's a full QWERTY keyboard hiding inside--perfect for checking e-mail. PRICE About $199; AT&T Wireless or Cingular 

2004 PRIUS 

DESIGNER Toyota WHY IT'S SO COOL Toyota's completely redesigned gas-electric hybrid car boasts an innovative teardrop-shaped body and miles of interior space. WHO LOVES IT Actress Lucy Liu; she just ordered one. PRICE $19,995 ($23,800 fully loaded); Toyota dealerships 

VAKIO WATCH 

DESIGNER Harri Koskinen for Issey Miyake WHY IT'S SO COOL The Vakio is perfect for execs on the go. Keep one easy-to-read face set to your home time zone, the other to that of your destination. WHO LOVES IT Atim Annette Oton, associate chair of product design at Parsons School of Design: "So totally hip." PRICE $450; Terence Conran Shop 

POWERSHOT SD10 DIGITAL ELPH 

DESIGNER Canon WHY IT'S SO COOL The teeny 3.5-ounce Elph (shown actual size) is the prettiest four-megapixel camera yet. Slip a cord through its top loop, and you have a fashion accessory. In four colors. WHO LOVES IT Fashion designer (and Sex and the City costumer) Patricia Field. During her fall show, models strutted the catwalk with SD10s dangling from their wrists. PRICE $349; Canon dealers 

BYO BAG 

DESIGNER Built NY WHY IT'S SO COOL It's a wetsuit for wine bottles. Turns out that neoprene, the material that warms surfers' bodies, also excels at keeping vino chilled. This soft two-bottle tote protects your spirits in transit too--saving the "clink, clink" for the toast. WHO LOVES IT Francis Ford Coppola. The bags are flying off the shelves at his California winery. PRICE $15.99; builtny.com 

T3 TURN TRANSPORTER 

DESIGNER Timm Fenton for Tumi WHY IT'S SO COOL This clever carryon boasts a silver telescoping handle with ergonomic grip that rotates to three positions, plus wheels with solid-steel axles and dual-sealed bearings that turn on a dime. PRICE $395; tumi.com 

$20 BILL 

DESIGNER The U.S. Treasury's Bureau of Engraving and Printing WHY IT'S SO COOL The subtle peach and blue hues, the ghostly second image of Andrew Jackson, and the Lilliputian yellow 20s drizzled across the back make this the best-looking--and most secure-- greenback ever. WHO LOVES IT Warren Buffett: "It's my favorite artwork. I hope to have a lot of those bills." PRICE $20; ATMs 

at home 

QUATTRO RAZOR 

DESIGNER Schick WHY IT'S SO COOL It's the first razor to incorporate four beard-busting blades. The sleek zinc handle with nonslip insets is comfortable in the hand, and two conditioning strips plus Schick's signature wire-wrapped blades keep skin smooth. WHO LOVES IT Every tester FORTUNE enlisted. PRICE $8.99; drugstores 

RABBIT LEVER VACUUM PUMP WINE PRESERVER 

DESIGNER Metrokane WHY IT'S SO COOL It's the best vacuum resealer ever--and a perfect match for the popular Rabbit corkscrew. Four easy pumps of the curvy handle suck the air from a partially empty bottle of wine, preserving the taste for about four days. WHO LOVES IT Sommelier Chris Meeske, owner of Mission Wines in South Pasadena: "It's fantastically easy to use." PRICE $24.99; Amazon.com 

ADVANCED HEALING BLISTER BANDAGE 

DESIGNER Johnson & Johnson WHY IT'S SO COOL Hydrocolloidal adhesive technology makes this cushioned Band-Aid--which is packed with a pain-relieving gel--cling to your blistered heel like Dennis Kozlowski to his lawyers. WHO LOVES IT MoMA curator Paola Antonelli: "I love its shape. It looks like a smooth, translucent slug." PRICE $3.99 for six; drugstores 

K-RING BOTTLE OPENER 

DESIGNER Karim Rashid for Copco WHY IT'S SO COOL "Round means lid, round means bottle, round means air bubbles, round is symbiotic with drinks," says Rashid. All we know is that his opener fits perfectly in the hand, and its candy-colored rim makes it easy to find in the drawer. PRICE $5.95; tabletools.com 

FRUITSCAPE 

DESIGNER Stefano Giovannoni for Alessi WHY IT'S SO COOL It's a bowl gone flat. Well, sort of. The undulating stainless-steel terrain grabs apples and bananas as effectively as a conventional fruit bowl. When empty, it's sculpture. WHO LOVES IT Newdealdesign president Gadi Amit: "It's simple, strong, and elegant." PRICE $130; momastore.org 

LIVING KITCHEN MIXING BOWLS 

DESIGNERS Nigella Lawson and Sebastian Conran WHY THEY'RE SO COOL These ceramic nesting bowls are the perfect melding of form and function: The egg shape is comfortable to hold against the body, and the narrow end ensures tidy pouring. WHO LOVES THEM The Parsons School's Oton: "Wonderful form." PRICE $79 for a set of four; containerstore.com 

FRAMETABLE 

DESIGNER Alberto Meda for Alias WHY IT'S SO COOL How many folding tables look as good collapsed as they do open? The Frametable's softly gleaming aluminum top is superlight; the die-cast aluminum- alloy legs are supersturdy. Forget about banishing the kids here on Thanksgiving--this table is for grownups. PRICE $1,925; 877-254- 2788 for dealers 

at the office 

SCANJET 4670 

DESIGNER Hewlett-Packard WHY IT'S SO COOL It's the first transparent scanner (both sides are made of clear polycarbonate). And because it can scan standing upright, it takes next to no room on your desk. PRICE $199; hpshopping.com 

MIRRA CHAIR 

DESIGNER Studio 7.5 for Herman Miller WHY IT'S SO COOL Find another office chair that looks like a stylized exoskeleton--not to mention one that's 96% recyclable. And unlike its more costly big brother, the Aeron, the Mirra has a Y-shaped back support that adjusts automatically. WHO LOVES IT E*Trade; it bought about 1,000 Mirras for its loan processors. PRICE Starts at $519; hermanmiller.com for dealers 

POWER MAC G5 

DESIGNER Jonathan Ive for Apple WHY IT'S SO COOL The G5's anodized aluminum enclosure isn't just an aesthetic home run: Its perforations keep the computer from overheating. Two sleek handles make the machine easy to move. And the G5's 64-bit processor is one of the fastest around. WHO LOVES IT Virginia Tech, which is tying together 1,100 G5s to create a supercomputer cluster for "big science" projects like nanoscale research. PRICE $1,799 to $2,999; apple.com 

PAPER SHREDDER 

DESIGNER Michael Graves for Target WHY IT'S SO COOL It's the best- looking shredder we've ever seen. While it's slow, it looks so friendly you won't mind the wait. Bonus: A built-in pencil sharpener. PRICE $34.99; target.com 

outdoors 

GRETTA GLOVES WITH EXHALE HEATING SYSTEM DESIGNER 180s WHY IT'S SO COOL When you're freezing, your hands won't be. Just puff a breath into the dime-sized hole on the top of each glove. The design traps your own hot air to make your hands feel toasty in seconds; a special material vents moisture. PRICE $75; 180s.com 

FUSION M12 SKIS DESIGNER Elan Skis with Marker WHY IT'S SO COOL A new technology moves the binding interface into the body of the ski from its usual home atop it. That makes the Fusion more flexible than other models and allows for easier turns--making you look like a better skier than you really are. WHO LOVES IT SKI Magazine, which called Fusion the "system of the year." PRICE $900; ski shops 

NAPALI KAYAK DESIGNER Murray Broom for Clear Blue Hawaii WHY IT'S SO COOL It's the first totally transparent collapsible kayak. The 26-pound Napali, a one-man ocean kayak, has a carbon Kevlar frame and plastic exterior that fold small enough to fit in a backpack. PRICE $4,289; clearbluehawaii.com 

MARATHON CLIMBING SHOE DESIGNER Scarpa WHY IT'S SO COOL Unlike other top-performing rock shoes, the Marathon has a heel wedge and arch support that let you walk comfortably on flat ground between climbs. WHO LOVES IT Matt Stanley, Climbing magazine's equipment editor. He named it the top shoe of 2003. PRICE $139.95; blackdiamondequipment.com 

FLOW BICYCLE SEAT 

DESIGNER Tylor Garland for SaddleCo WHY IT'S SO COOL Designed by an avid cyclist, this bike seat was inspired by Herman Miller's Aeron chair. Flow's woven elastic increases ventilation and deflects the rider's weight over a wide perimeter, increasing comfort and decreasing, ahem, numbing. WHO LOVES IT Richard Snook, an exec at big bike retailer Performance: "It's unique." PRICE $135 and up; saddleco.com for retailers 

LIQUIDMETAL RADICAL 

DESIGNER Head WHY IT'S SO COOL Liquidmetal, an alloy that includes copper, nickel, and titanium, makes up four slices of the head of this tennis racket (the rest is graphite). That distributes energy more efficiently than conventional models. The result: more powerful shots. PRICE $200; sporting goods stores 

FEEDBACK jschlosser@fortunemail.com 

See also pages 175 and 182 of same issue 

COLOR PHOTOMONTAGE: PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID LAZARUS WHY IS THIS MAN SMILING? Perhaps because he's composed of nine of our winners (clockwise from top): 180s glove, Scarpa climbing shoe, Copco bottle opener, Herman Miller chair, Built NY bag, Head tennis racket, Nigella Lawson's Living Kitchen bowls, SaddleCo bicycle seat, and Altec Lansing Technologies speaker (center). TWENTY-SIX COLOR PHOTOS: PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID LAZARUS 


Document FORTU00020031125dzc80000t


More Like This

 Article 335 *******************    



Entrepreneurs

Silicon Hills; Investing in smalltown companies across America, two young venture capitalists are trying to discover--or create--the next Austin, Tex. 

Erika Brown 
1,010 words 
8 December 2003
Forbes
165
Volume 172 Issue 12
English
(c) 2003 Forbes Inc. 

Investing in small-town companies across America, two young venture capitalists are trying to discover--or create--the next Austin, Tex. 

It's not an everyday scene at the Grove Hotel in downtown Boise, Idaho. Instead of tourists and mountain bikers the place is packed with suits for the town's fifth venture capital conference. "San Jose hasn't cornered the market on smart people," says Matthew Harris, 30, the keynote speaker. "Silicon Valley is so yesterday. Boise is tomorrow!" The crowd cheers. 

Harris, chief executive of Village Ventures in Williamstown, Mass., has given this speech before. His little VC firm, which has raised $225 million in 15 funds, specializes in finding investing partners and startups in small, out-of-the-way places, where overhead is low and competition almost non-existent. "The economic logic is simple," says cofounder William (Bo) Peabody, 32. "If you want to catch fish, you go where the fishermen ain't." 

Certainly a different approach--maybe the only one open to folks who are virtually locked out of Sand Hill Road in Palo Alto and Route 128 in Boston. Venture capital is an inside game these days: 80% of funds go to ten metropolitan areas; most new capital supports existing ventures. "The business hasn't changed in 40 years," says Harris. "It's time for some fresh thinking." 

Which carries some risk, of course. Village Ventures looks for areas near a large tech company or research lab, with low costs of living and low crime rates, a net influx of people, a thriving arts community and lots of outdoor activities. Such categories correlate with a high percentage of folks aged 20 to 44. Boise scored high on most categories: two tech giants (Hewlett-Packard and Micron); two engineering schools and a national research lab nearby; natural beauty; a ballet company, opera house and a symphony; and housing and business costs, respectively, 5% and 14% below the national average. 

Key to this process is the way Harris and Peabody go about investing. First they identify a homegrown affiliate. In Albany, N.Y., for instance, it's High Peaks Venture Partners, which is seeding nanotech companies spun out of research labs in upstate New York. Solstice Capital, a partner in Tucson, Ariz., invests in life sciences outfits, many hatched at Arizona universities. Village Ventures helps to raise money--$26 million in the case of Boise--as well as handling back-office chores and offering access to a network of funds and investors. The firm puts in 20 cents for every local dollar invested, more into deals it really likes. In exchange it takes an eyebrow-raising 33% of the affiliate firm's carried interest (defined as 20% of the fund's profits). 

This pair stumbled on the idea six years ago. Peabody was running Tripod, a personal Web site service launched in his dorm at Williams College, when the president of the college, hoping to spark economic development in the area, asked a few alumni for ideas. Peabody referred him to Harris, a former college roommate who was then a 24-year-old associate with Bain Capital. Weeks later Harris was raising $5 million for a new VC firm called Berkshire Capital Investors and digging up deals in rural western Massachusetts. He invested $350,000 in Tripod and, when Peabody sold the company to Lycos for $58 million a year later in 1998, netted three times its money. If it worked in the Berkshires, Harris argued, it might fly elsewhere. In January 2000 he and Peabody set out to raise money--$20 million from Bain, Highland Capital Partners and Sandler Capital Management, then $25 million from those investors plus Janus Capital Group. Harris and Peabody cut a deal for an annual management fee during the active investing years of 5% of the $45 million fund--more than twice the industry average. 

So how has Village Ventures done so far? So-so. It has written off $2.2 million in 4 of 40 investments. The fund has seen but one cash-out: Okena, a network security company that sold to Cisco in April, returning 5.5 times the fund's $2 million investment. The internal rate of return, a mathematically flaky (and, for portfolios that include private companies, subjective) measure of performance, is running at -18% a year. 

But there are signs of life in Boise. Village Ventures' affiliate there, Highway 12 Ventures, has backed six young companies, including Dedicated Devices. Founded by Micron Electronics' former chief of technology, Jeffrey Moeser, this outfit makes home networking equipment to cut the tangle of thermostat, speaker, TV and burglar alarm wires that snake through houses; it will start selling services next fall. 

Half of Highway 12's deal flow still comes from out of town. In October the firm invested in a $12 million deal to back Mountain View, Calif.-based Attensity. The company makes software that helps computers detect hidden patterns in text. The CIA, for instance, uses it to analyze communications among suspected terrorists; corporations to analyze customer complaints. 

Highway 12 also has money in Telemetric, a firm in Boise that uses wireless communicators, mounted on utility poles, to alert power companies to outages. The three-year-old company is supposed to bring in at least $1 million in revenue from 110 customers this year. 

Village Ventures plans to raise another $50 million to play with by year-end. But payday may be eons away. "It's a long road to take a cow town to a tech center with big dollars," concedes Harris. Then he brightens. "But 20 years ago Austin was nowhere." 


Bringing Up Boise   
Idaho's capital scored high on Village Ventures' screen.
Low costs of doing business and natural beauty helped.   
   
Population 404,000   Average home price $129,000   
Income growth 2.9%   Days of sunshine/year 234   
Job growth 3.3%   Cost of living 95% of national average   
  

Document FB00000020031128dzc800014


More Like This

 Article 336 *******************    



Politics & Policy
POLITICAL CAPITAL:

POLITICAL CAPITAL: Politicians Need To Set National Goal That Lifts Spirits 

By Alan Murray 
871 words 
9 December 2003
The Wall Street Journal
A4
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

WHITE HOUSE PLANS to call for a moon shot -- or its moral equivalent -- in the State of the Union address are a welcome antidote to three years of unrelenting bad news. Terror, war, recession and corporate corruption may give the nation a renewed sense of purpose, but they don't lift spirits. 

President Bush's first advertisement of the 2004 campaign -- aired in Iowa by the Republican National Committee -- illustrates the point. It is a dirge. "It would take one vial, one canister, one crate slipped into this country to bring a day of horror like none we have ever known," Mr. Bush intones against a background of minor-key organ chords. That's a far cry from the "Morning in America" advertisements that Ronald Reagan used during his re-election campaign. The Democrats challenging the president aren't exactly upbeat either. They stress chaos in Iraq, and a deficit-driven Armageddon here at home. 

What's needed is a national goal that all Americans can feel good about -- an aspiration that befits the United States' current status as the most successful nation in the history of the world. "Expand tax-free savings accounts" doesn't do the trick. "Create democracy in the Middle East" may be more fitting, but it turns out to have all sorts of nasty side effects. 

The White House is apparently considering plans to go back to the moon and establish a research center, but that has the risk of feeling retro. Sending a man to Mars would work better -- except for the fact that Mr. Bush's father promised to do that when he was president. Moreover, manned space missions, as exciting as they are, have two inherent drawbacks: 1) they cost boatloads of money, and 2) there is no particular reason to believe they'll do anything to improve life back here on the mother ship. 

THE DEMOCRATIC presidential wannabes have trotted out some old chestnuts -- universal health insurance, health insurance for all children, universal preschool, college education for all. Those are all very worthy goals, but not particularly new. Rep. Dick Gephardt comes closest to the mark with his call for "an Apollo project to develop environmentally smart, renewable energy solutions to make America energy independent by the end of the decade." But we've been there before, too. 

Since the politicians are struggling, here are a few suggestions: 

1) Harness the knowledge of the human genome . . . 

The new frontier is not space, but biology and medicine. With the sequencing of the genome, we are now on the verge of an explosion in knowledge about human biology and medicine. The wise politician will get in front of these developments, and help lead the way. Among the possibilities: 

. . . to extend human life by a decade. Scientists have already had success extending the lives of laboratory animals with simple genetic manipulations. A concentrated federal research effort could do the same for humans. This would be popular with the old folks, but unfortunately would also add to the already daunting problems of the Social Security trust fund. 

. . . to conquer cancer (or heart disease, or diabetes, or Alzheimer's). 

An Apollo-like effort to explore how genetic factors contribute to disease, and how drugs and other therapies can treat them, could lead to big payoffs. 

. . . to eliminate health inequality. 

Large disparities exist today between the health status of blacks and whites, men and women, and other groups in society. Genetic research promises to greatly enhance our understanding of those differences, and our ability to reduce them. 

2) Make American children the healthiest in the world. 

The U.S. ranks 42nd in the world in infant mortality -- behind all of the countries in Europe, as well as Taiwan and Hong Kong. The nation should set a goal of making the infant mortality rate in this country the very lowest in the world. It's mostly low-tech stuff, but well worth doing. 

3) Provide universal access to high-speed Internet services. 

As the father of a teenage girl who eats and breathes instant messaging, I'm skeptical of this one. But broadband access opens up a world of information, for those willing to use it. 

There's also probably a worthy national goal in the field of nanotechnology, but I haven't figured out what it is. The Commerce Department's Bruce Mehlman insists the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic level promises "more change in the next 30 years than we saw in all of the 20th century." In a recent speech, he offered this as an example: "Imagine having your clothes adjust to changing weather conditions, monitor your vital signs, or protect your wounds." Hmm. 

Anyway, that's my list. The president should feel free to adopt all of them, and his Democratic opponents should as well. No credit necessary. 

--- 

Alan Murray is Washington bureau chief of CNBC and co-host of Capital Report, which airs Tuesday-Friday at 9 p.m. Eastern and Pacific Time. 

--- 

Question of the Day: Should the U.S. launch another mission to the moon? Visit WSJ.com/Question to vote. 

Document J000000020031209dzc90006f


More Like This

 Article 337 *******************    



Technology Journal
Digits

Digits 

1,059 words 
11 December 2003
The Wall Street Journal
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[Gambits & Gadgets in the World of Technology] 

Bold Moves 

How quickly love fades. 

In October, International Business Machines Corp. and EMC Corp., longtime rivals in data storage, held hands in a pact to swap bits of computer code that would make their respective products cohabit better. "EMC and IBM Work to Extend Interoperability," a joint news release trumpeted. 

Limited code sharing, of course, is common in the computer business, even among rivals. But rarely does it take so short a time for the sharers to be at each others' throats. 

Last week, IBM sent out another news release touting a device designed to suck data off competitors' storage devices so they could switch to a new supplier. The only competitor mentioned in the release was EMC. Spokeswoman Lisa Lanspery, in case anyone missed the point, said in an e-mail that her employer had launched "a bold move to attack EMC's customer base." IBM also said it will deploy a team of 100 consultants to take business from EMC. 

Chuck Hollis, EMC's vice president of platforms marketing, says IBM is "under a lot of pressure. EMC has gone through an incredible resurgence." Mr. Hollis noted that IBM, in its third-quarter conference call, admitted to losing ground in the high-end storage market to a competitor. "We're flattered to think that might be us," he added. 

World-Wide Wireless? 

Not yet. International travelers awaiting a cell phone you can use anywhere in the world are going to be on hold a little bit longer. 

Verizon Wireless, the country's biggest cellphone operator, said earlier this year it would sell a new phone by the end of 2003 that uses both the CDMA standard -- which it uses in the U.S. -- and GSM, the most common standard in the rest of the world. The long anticipated "world phone" would be a blessing for frequent international travelers who have to use one phone while in the U.S. and then another phone abroad. 

But now, Verizon Wireless says the new phone, from Samsung Electronics Co., won't be sold until early 2004. "The product remains in testing now, and what we were not willing to do is introduce a half-baked solution to the multitechnology roaming problem," said a company spokesman. 

When the handset finally arrives, it will be particularly appreciated by one of the wireless operator's corporate parents: Vodafone Group PLC of Newbury, England, which owns 45% of Verizon Wireless. Until then, Vodafone executives will continue to roam onto the network of Verizon Wireless's rivals when they visit the U.S. 

More `Nano' Dollars 

Betting that small technologies will have big economic payoffs, President Bush earlier this month signed the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act authorizing $3.7 billion in federal funds for nanotechnology, the science of building new products and devices by manipulating molecules and atoms. 

Now, a group of venture capitalists and corporate investors is lining up to advise a new $350 million nanotechnology research center, called the California NanoSystems Institute, which is being jointly run by two California state universities: UCLA and UC Santa Barbara. With help from this industry advisory board, researchers hope to get a jump-start in the "first-to-market" race as new products become ready for commercialization. 

Among those joining the board: long-time nanotech advocate Steve Jurvetson, managing director at venture firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson; Gary Lazar, a partner at California Technology Ventures; Alan Marty, executive-in-residence at JPMorgan Partners LLC and senior scientists and managers from Amgen Inc., DuPont Corp., General Electric Corp., IBM, and Intel Corp., among others. 

CNSI's mission, says senior vice president Derrick Boston, is "to make Southern California in nanotech, for what Silicon Valley has done for IT -- to be the leading center in the world." He acknowledges that the competition is tough: Other nanotech outposts have sprung up throughout the world, with two strongholds in Northern California, at rival campuses Berkeley and Stanford University. But Mr. Boston says the advisory board gives CNSI a leg up by helping the institute to leverage relationships with the technology industry. 

What's more, he says, the investors "will have the opportunity to invest in technology that will be spun out of here." Similarly, he says, industry reps will have an opportunity to license the technology and commercialize it that way. It's one reason, he says, "why I'm sure they're at the table." 

Getting Personal 

As most parents know, when it comes to computers, it's the kids who have the know-how. Now, a new survey of how children and families use the Internet shows more kids are using the Web as a tool for personal expression. Indeed, it says more than two million children ages 6 to 17 have their own personal Web sites. 

The biannual survey was released last week by Grunwald Associates, a research firm based in San Mateo, Calif., that collects data on children's Internet and computer use. Those two million, the survey says, represent nearly 10% of the 23 million children in the U.S. who have home Internet access, and is three times as high as it was in 2000. 

Not surprisingly, the kids with the greatest number of Web sites are in the 13-to-17-year-old range, the study found. If they didn't have a Web site up already, another 44% of teens, and more girls than boys, said they planned to do so. Younger kids, too, are clicking the mouse. About 32% of children ages 6 to 8 who responded to the survey -- in a pool of more than 2,200 kids -- said they planned to build one. 

"Previous generations of kids wrote earnest poetry, or joined rock bands to express themselves," says Peter Grunwald, the firm's research director and president who directed the research. "Today's kids do so by building personal Web sites." He adds: "They're hungry for tools to help them build better, more-engaging sites, and stay in closer touch with friends." 

--- 

Digits was compiled by Ann Grimes with contributions from Charles Forelle and Jesse Drucker. 

--- 

WSJ.com subscribers can see additional information on top stories, 24-hour updated news, stock quotes, company background information and more, in The Online Journal at WSJ.com/technology. 

Document J000000020031211dzcb0002z


More Like This

 Article 338 *******************    



Industry Insider: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

CAN NEW TECHNOLOGY RECHARGE XEROX? Herve Gallaire talks about getting the innovation engine back on track 

1,678 words 
22 December 2003
BusinessWeek
IM2
Number 3863
English
(c) 2003 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

For Xerox Corp., the millennium got off to a rocky start. Revenues have fallen every year since 2000, and Xerox doesn't expect to reverse that trend until the latter half of 2004. But the Stamford (Conn.) company is confident that new technology will restore growth and profits. Certainly, its research operations have a legendary track record for innovation. The Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) hatched many silicon-age icons. In 1973, almost a decade before Apple Computer Inc.'s Macintosh, PARC built the first graphical-screen personal computers -- and soon after linked them via an Ethernet network. Xerox famously failed to profit from most of these early inventions, except for the laser printer. But lessons were learned. Recently, for example, Xerox has scored big with a laser-printer advance that applies four colors simultaneously instead of sequentially. 

The man recharging Xerox' research and development is Herve J. Gallaire, chief technology officer and senior vice-president for research and technology. At 59, Gallaire has been Xerox' CTO for four years. He oversees 1,000 scientists and engineers at labs in Webster, N.Y., and in Britain, Canada, and France -- plus PARC Inc., now a separate subsidiary of Xerox. Before joining Xerox in 1992, he had been head of computer science and mathematics at France's National Superior School for Aeronautics & Space and managed hardware and software development at French computer giant Groupe Bull. To glimpse what's in the new-technology pipeline, Senior Writer Otis Port chatted with Gallaire in New York. 

Has the turmoil affected your job much, especially the spin-off of PARC? 

Not really. My job is still doing the work that needs to be done to prepare Xerox for its future, both in terms of improving what we do today and in terms of finding new types of products and solutions. We set up PARC as an independent company, but this doesn't mean Xerox is any less interested in our strategic relationship with PARC. Some of the technology that comes out of PARC is absolutely essential. 

But we also recognize that PARC can do much more than just serve Xerox' needs. The technologies they develop could benefit others as well -- and should. So the intent is to provide a set of partners that sponsor work at PARC, and eventually some of these partners could become investors and partial owners. PARC already has some strategic research partners but not yet investors. 

What would happen if a potential competitor wanted to invest in PARC? 

We would have to look at the specifics. We probably would not do a deal with, say, Canon. But if we wanted to use a new PARC technology in Xerox printing or computing products, it would be O.K. for somebody else to use it in a market like bioengineering. 

What are some of your hot technologies? 

Historically, Xerox has had a big impact on how people work. A lot of the business processes in offices today have been really affected by printing and copying. But there's still more to do. 

A Canadian study doneestimates office workers spend about 55% of their time dealing with documents in one form or another -- electronic or paper. But people are not very productive at this, since they say 40% to 66% of that 55% is wasted time. 

We have social scientists and anthropologists who develop processes for extracting information about how people work. You can't just ask: ``How do you do this?'' You need a methodology. We spend research money on these kinds of tools -- and related ones that help people and offices improve the way they work. With our optimization tools, they typically reduce costs by 20% to 30%. 

How does that affect office paperwork? 

The paperless office is a myth that's probably never going to happen, so we want to help people become more efficient at using paper. We are developing a technology, centered around scanning, that extracts information from documents so we can index them better, archive them better, and retrieve them better. In fact, we're using one of these technologies in-house today. It's called CopyFinder. If you put a page of paper on a copier, the copier will associate it with similar documents in your personal repository, in your work group's, or even on the Web. 

How does it do that? 

By scanning the document, performing OCR [optical character recognition] to digitize the text, and then doing content analysis. Using automated linguistic tools developed in Grenoble, France, and at PARC, it determines the key characteristics of that page. That content analysis becomes the basis of a search for matching documents. This is still in research. 

If the copier is connected to a network, can it send e-mail? 

That's called ``scan to e-mail,'' and a lot of Xerox people and customers are doing it. They also scan-to-fax and scan-to-archive. It saves a lot of time, even without the linguistic tools for classification and searching that we have in the lab. Law firms are realizing huge benefits from this, because so much of what they get is in paper form. 

For some big customers, we provide scan-to-archive as a service from a site in Arkansas. One financial firm archives 5 million documents a year, and we maintain their archive. Now, from their offices here in New York, or anywhere, they can access a document in a half-day or less. Before, it took a week or two to get a document out of the paper archive. 

How much do you spend on basic research? 

Overall, Xerox spends close to $1 billion on both R&D and R&T [research and technology]. Basic research is about 20% of my budget -- not 20% of overall Xerox R&D, just of my $170 million for R&T. About 35% more of my budget goes to technology -- maturing what was in research before. The remainder is work in support of product programs. 

We develop various platforms that Xerox exploits. A platform is not a product; it's a more generic concept -- a model that a business group can take and specialize for its particular markets. Of our product support work, about 85% usually goes to help our core businesses. 

What's a core business for Xerox? 

We identify three core markets. First is very large corporations. They need most of the products we make, and they are especially strong users of our high-end products: faster printers, color copiers, and multifunction office products. Second is the public sector. We are very strong there. And the third core area is the office -- not just the large enterprises but also the general office market. They each require different products. And to serve them efficiently, we need products that can be upgraded easily for the large enterprises. That's one function of the platforms we develop. 

Do you also help translate the platforms into actual products? 

Part of my job is to make sure, through the platforms, that technology gets shared among the groups, so that each group doesn't have to invent all the tech it needs. For example, it would be silly for every group to develop its own technology for connecting to a network. So we make a point of developing software modules that can be shared. 

Does that mean you're reusing software? 

Yeah, we do a lot of software reuse already. We recently created a database that has something like 20 million lines of code today. Eventually, every feature developed in software will be put in there, along with information about what it does. The level of reuse is not as high as we would like, but we estimate that savings based on reuse of code over the past two years was about $30 million. 

You recently printed electronic circuits on plastic. Why work on that? 

The flexible circuits technology could be a new business opportunity. But it also relates to our core business. Photoreceptors are a key component in Xerox machines, and the technology for making photoreceptors is evolving around polymer electronics, instead of semiconductors such as silicon. So we are developing a very strong competency in polymers. 

PARC has been a nanotechnology pioneer. What's coming out of that work? 

Until last year, all our toner was made by combining resins, pigments, and other ingredients to produce a big chunk of material that was then broken down into small particles. Today, at a pilot plant at our Canadian research center, we're growing toner from a molecule. 

We start with a molecule that's a few nanometers across and grow it to a few microns in size. While we're doing that, we can chemically control everything, even form it the way we want -- a sphere isn't the best shape, because it's harder to clean. And since the particles are smaller and more uniform in size, the print quality is better. The particles get packed closer together, so the image is a bit sharper. 

We constantly revamp our technologies, but after 40 or 50 years, we need very deep scientific understanding to go to the next level. Nanotech is a key to the future. 


 (available online)
KEY RESEARCH THRUSTS

SMART DOCUMENT MACHINES
Reducing paperwork with multifunction office machines that scan documents, extract and index key information, and store it so it can be retrieved rapidly via a network.

SOFTWARE REUSE
Saving time and improving quality by building a library of common computer code to help spread new chip- and sensor-based functions across product lines more efficiently.

PLATFORM DESIGN
Accelerating new product development by creating software models of ``commodity'' components and systems that can be quickly adapted to new copiers and printers.

Data: Xerox
  

Photograph: GALLAIRE: Improving the way people and offices work PHOTOGRAPH BY FOREST MCMULLIN| Illustration: Chart: INVESTING IN THE FUTURE CHART BY ALBERTO MENA/BW 


Document BW00000020031218dzcm00001


More Like This

 Article 339 *******************    



Small-Stock Focus

Russell 2000 Hits 45-Month High 

By Cynthia Schreiber Dow Jones Newswires 
832 words 
30 December 2003
The Wall Street Journal
C8
English
(Copyright (c) 2003, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Silver and gold made small-capitalization stocks sparkle on one of the last trading days of 2003, including the highest close for the Russell 2000 small-stock index since March 2000. 

A falling dollar led gold prices higher, and producers of the precious metal followed suit. Golden Star Resources' stock advanced 34 cents, or 4.8%, to $7.42, and Iamgold's stock gained 19 cents, or 2.8%, to 7.08, both on the American Stock Exchange. Meridian Gold shares rose 56 cents, or 4%, to 14.60 each on the Big Board. 

Silver prices also rose, resulting in gains by silver producers. Coeur D'Alene Mines gained 45 cents, or 8.5%, to 5.75 on the New York Stock Exchange after saying progress at two development projects should increase its silver and gold production in 2006. Apex Silver Mines surged 3.08, or 17%, to 20.93 on the American Stock Exchange. 

Traders attributed the stock market's overall advance to the expectation that share prices will rise next week, when new money is expected to flow into mutual funds as 2004 begins. "Seasonally, this is one of the strongest weeks of the year," noted David Memmott, head of block trading at Morgan Stanley. 

Buying was broad, helping the Russell 2000 rise 8.98, or 1.62%, to 563.88, the highest close in 45 months, since March 27, 2000. The Standard & Poor's SmallCap 600 Index gained 3.93, or 1.46%, to 273.77, another all-time closing high. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Composite Index of large-cap and small-cap stocks jumped 33.34, or 1.69%, to 2006.48, a 23-month high. 

Steel stocks rallied for a second straight session after China lifted trade tariffs on steel imports. Oregon Steel Mills jumped 50 cents, or 9.1%, to 6.02, and Allegheny Technologies climbed 83 cents, or 6.4%, to 13.90, both on the NYSE. 

Makers of semiconductors, which have helped lead the stock market's advance this year, also showed strength in the latest session. Among small stocks, Transmeta rose 27 cents, or 8.3%, to 3.51, after A.G. Edwards started investment coverage of the stock with a "buy" rating, citing the recent launch of the Santa Clara, Calif., chip company's new microprocessor. 

And restaurant stocks rebounded after McDonald's indicated that the mad-cow episode didn't hurt weekend sales. Jack in the Box closed up 78 cents, or 3.8%, at 21.49 on the Big Board, and Sonic rose 1.20, or 4%, to 30.90. 

Footwear stocks were the sole industry laggard issues, illustrating how broad the buying was. The New York Stock Exchange suspended trading in shares of Footstar and moved to delist the stock because of uncertainty over the shoe retailer's financial records. Genesco fell 34 cents, or 2.1%, to 15.58. 

Stocks soared for companies involved in nanotechnology -- the science of building products at the molecular level -- as optimism over the industry's growth prospects continued to mount. Nanogen surged 1.55, or 21%, to 9.05, and Harris & Harris Group soared 1.95, or 20%, to 11.95. 

Trinity Biotech's American depositary receipts vaulted 1.86, or 57%, to 5.14, after the Irish company said it received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to market its HIV test in the U.S. Meantime, shares of rival OraSure Technologies, Bethlehem, Pa., dropped 39 cents, or 4.5%, to 8.25. 

On-Site Sourcing rose 20 cents, or 7.7%, to 2.80, after Docuforce LLC agreed to buy the Alexandria, Va., provider of document-management services for about $16.6 million, or $2.87 a share in cash. 

OpenTV, a San Francisco interactive-television company, rose 15 cents, or 5.6%, to 2.85, after saying it now provides services to over one million Charter Communications cable subscribers. 

Talx lost 1.23, or 5.1%, to 23.10, after Baird said it expects the St. Louis outsourcing-services provider's earnings growth to slow significantly over the next few quarters. 

Shares of 21st Century Holding leapt 4.28, or 25%, to 21.30, after the Plantation, Fla., insurer said it expects to meet or exceed its 2003 earnings guidance and raised its forecast for 2004, citing growth in its property and general-liability lines. 

Jos. A. Bank Clothiers jumped 1.16, or 3.5%, to 34.68, after the Hampstead, Md., clothing retailer said sales in December have exceeded its expectations. 

Food retailer Winn-Dixie Stores rose 50 cents, or 5.4%, to 9.82 on the Big Board, after the Jacksonville, Fla., company said it will offer the FluMist nasal-spray vaccine to customers at select locations. 

Trading volume on the Nasdaq Stock Market was 1.4 billion shares. Advancers outnumbered decliners 2,267 to 969. 

Document J000000020031230dzcu00022


More Like This

 Article 340 *******************    



Technology & Health

Intel Looks at Nanotechnology To Improve Its Semiconductors 

By Don Clark 
545 words 
14 January 2004
The Wall Street Journal
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Intel Corp., facing roadblocks in improving semiconductors, is exploring a new tack with a high-profile start-up business called Nanosys Inc. 

The companies have agreed to collaborate to study the possibility of using Nanosys's technology in Intel chips. Nanosys, one of many entrants in a field called nanotechnology, specializes in techniques for making microscopic structures out of silicon and other materials common to the semiconductor industry. Nanosys, of Palo Alto, Calif., and other companies have discussed applying threadlike structures called nanowires to sheets of plastic that could be churned out on rolls, like paper. Such flexible circuitry, in theory, could be produced more efficiently than conventional chips and used in many new ways. 

Intel and Nanosys declined to give details about their collaboration. But Laura Anderson, an Intel spokeswoman, said the agreement focuses on memory technology and includes arrangements to share patents for a limited time. "This work is purely investigational," Ms. Anderson said. 

Much of Intel's research focuses on squeezing more transistors onto chips. Packing more circuits in the same amount of space creates chips that are faster, store more data and consume less power. 

Intel, of Santa Clara, Calif., is just beginning to ship chips whose circuitry has a maximum size of 90 nanometers, or billionths of a meter. The company has demonstrated some technology with features as small as 22 nanometers, though such chips aren't expected to enter production until 2010 at the earliest. 

Those dimensions tax conventional photographic techniques, which chip makers use to define circuits on silicon wafers. But nanotechnology companies manufacture in a different way, churning out tiny parts through chemical processes in the equivalent of flasks. 

Nanowires are expected to be used to make transistors just a few nanometers in size. Computer titan Hewlett-Packard Co., for example, has demonstrated ways to crisscross the tiny strands and store data with 10 times the efficiency of conventional memory chips, said Philip Kuekes, an H-P senior computer architect. 

Researchers hope to exploit some more radical ways that materials behave at tiny sizes. Some tiny crystals can be tuned to emit different light based on their diameters, for example, and can transfer electrons more efficiently than materials blended in a chip factory, Nanosys says. 

"The fact that companies such as Intel are looking to us has to do with the ability to engineer the properties of materials in an entirely new way," said Stephen Empedocles, a Nanosys co-founder and director of business development. 

Nanosys, a closely held company that employs a number of nanotechnology pioneers, has raised about $70 million to date. A $38 million funding round last spring included an undisclosed investment from Intel. A key target for the company is solar energy; Nanosys and Matsushita Electric Works Ltd. are working on roofing tiles that can generate electricity and should be in production in 2006, Mr. Empedocles said. 

Intel also is placing multiple bets. In 1999, it invested in a Norwegian company, Opticom ASA, and a subsidiary that is developing memory chips based on flexible polymers. In 2000, it invested in Ovonyx Inc., a start-up business working on memory technology that exploits changes in what are called amorphous materials. 

Document J000000020040114e01e0001p


More Like This

 Article 341 *******************    



Developments to Watch: INNOVATIONS

Of Ceramics, Pig's Eyes, And Cross Talk 

By Otis Port Edited by Catherine Arnst 
209 words 
19 January 2004
BusinessWeek
75
Number 3866
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

-- Because ceramics are so brittle, machining them can be a nightmare. Ask most engineers to carve filaments 1,000 times as thin as a human hair, and they'll throw up their hands. But it's a snap for Sehoon Yoo, a materials-science student at Ohio State University. He bakes titanium-dioxide ceramic in hydrogen gas, and its surface develops deep holes that create ceramic hairs no more than 50 nanometers wide. How does it happen? Nobody knows. Yoo hopes to earn his PhD figuring it out. 

-- Using the microscopic tip of an atomic-force microscope, researchers at Purdue University have carved scaffoldlike patterns on the surface of a pig's retina. They hope to use the resulting template to promote the growth of transplanted retinal cells. If it works, it could be the first step toward halting macular degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in people 55 and older. 

-- Engineers at Penn State University have developed an error-correction scheme that drastically boosts the capacity of copper wire to carry voice and data simultaneously in local area networks. In simulations, speeds hit an unprecedented 10 gigabits a second. 

Document BW00000020040116e01j0001k


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 342 *******************    



Developments to Watch: INNOVATIONS

Of Ceramics, Pig's Eyes, And Cross Talk 

By Otis Port Edited by Catherine Arnst 
209 words 
19 January 2004
BusinessWeek
75
Number 3866
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

-- Because ceramics are so brittle, machining them can be a nightmare. Ask most engineers to carve filaments 1,000 times as thin as a human hair, and they'll throw up their hands. But it's a snap for Sehoon Yoo, a materials-science student at Ohio State University. He bakes titanium-dioxide ceramic in hydrogen gas, and its surface develops deep holes that create ceramic hairs no more than 50 nanometers wide. How does it happen? Nobody knows. Yoo hopes to earn his PhD figuring it out. 

-- Using the microscopic tip of an atomic-force microscope, researchers at Purdue University have carved scaffoldlike patterns on the surface of a pig's retina. They hope to use the resulting template to promote the growth of transplanted retinal cells. If it works, it could be the first step toward halting macular degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in people 55 and older. 

-- Engineers at Penn State University have developed an error-correction scheme that drastically boosts the capacity of copper wire to carry voice and data simultaneously in local area networks. In simulations, speeds hit an unprecedented 10 gigabits a second. 

Document BW00000020040116e01j0004c


More Like This

 Article 343 *******************    



Heard on the Street

Nanotech Firms Turn Tiny Fundamentals Into Big Stock Gains 

By Gregory Zuckerman 
1,024 words 
20 January 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

SOME OF THE BIGGEST gains in the stock market are coming from the littlest things lately. 

Internet stocks, telecom shares, Chinese companies all are tearing it up. But the hottest stocks right now are a group of companies racing to develop nanotechnology, which uses tiny particles to create and improve all kinds of products. 

Nanotechnology favorites such as Nanogen Inc., Nanophase Technologies Corp. and Veeco Instruments Inc. all have doubled, tripled or more during the past year, even though they have no earnings and, for the most part, minimal revenue. 

"They're way too frothy," says John Romero, who runs Aptus Partners LP, a small hedge fund in Birmingham, Ala., that has invested in nanotechnology companies but has sold its stakes. "They've run up so fast that you can wake up tomorrow and some could be worth nothing." 

What is nanotechnology? A way to develop a substance, like teflon, or a component, like a computer chip, with building blocks as small as 10 nanometers (a nanometer is one-billionth of a meter). The idea is that once the substances are that small, they can be manipulated more effectively and sometimes aren't as affected by forces such as gravity, giving them a range of new uses. In coming years, companies will use nanotechnology to improve everything from computer hard drives and chips to drugs and even suit pants. 

"We believe nanotechnology could be the next great growth innovation," says John Roy, a Merrill Lynch analyst, who says nanotechnology companies will begin generating revenue and even profit during the next few years. "Like the Internet, nanotech risks being overhyped, but also like the Internet, where there's smoke there's fire." 

The problem is, there is so much smoke that some investors aren't seeing clearly, some say. Even if many of these companies generate big profits sooner than expected, they still can't justify the run-ups their stocks have had. 

Among the nanotech stocks getting attention right now is Harris & Harris Group Inc., a New York-based venture-capital fund that counts nanotech companies among its holdings. The company, which has a market value of $250 million, has seen its shares jump to $18.45 from $2.50 in March 2003. Harris & Harris invests in start-up companies and reported a net-asset value of $2.11 in the third quarter, which is down from $2.61 a year earlier. Harris President Mel Melsheimer wouldn't comment on the outlook for the company or when it will turn a profit. 

Just as investors flocked to Internet Capital Group, an incubator of Internet companies that ran up during the Internet bubble but crashed when earnings for the sector took too long to materialize, some see similarities in the sudden popularity of Harris & Harris shares. If anything, the company's ticker symbol -- TINY -- is enough to make short sellers froth. 

Another hot stock is Nanogen, up to $11.80 a share from $1 since March. The company, which uses nanotechnology for medical purposes, has a market value of almost $300 million but lost $7.1 million in the third quarter, on a measly $1.7 million in revenue. On some recent days the company, which has 21 million shares available for trading, has seen more than six million shares change hands, a sure sign that speculators are targeting the stock. David Ludvigson, executive vice president of the company, wouldn't comment on when Nanogen expects to generate its first profit. "We're still in the investment phase of developing the business," he says. 

Some see stark reminders of the early days of the Internet bubble. "Companies that double or triple without earnings and barely any revenues one has to be a bit suspect about," Mr. Romero says. "Now there is far more risk than reward, the valuations are so stretched." 

For one thing, bankers expect a slew of nano companies to go public during the next year. And just as companies raced to drop Old Economy names and stick a "dot-com" onto their names at the height of the bubble, a group of companies are putting "nano" in their names, grabbing attention and conveying to investors that they are a play on the nanotechnology wave. 

Last June, for example, SI Diamond Technology Inc., of Austin, Texas, changed its name to Nano-Proprietary Inc., a research-and-development company that also develops electric signs. In July, US Global Aerospace changed its name to US Global Nanospace Inc. The name changes have helped send shares soaring. Nano-Proprietary closed at $2.99 Friday, up from 22 cents a year earlier, while US Global Nanospace closed at $1.66 on Friday, up from a nickel in April of last year. 

To mitigate the risk, some analysts recommend bigger, more established names such as Veeco and FEI Co., which sell the tools that enable others to use nanotechnology. 

The problem is this strategy is the same "buy the Internet toll keepers" strategy that pushed investors into Cisco Systems and Sun Microsystems during the tech bubble, and while those stocks didn't go to zero like many dot-coms, they still fell 80% or more. 

Then there are the tech giants such as Intel, Hewlett-Packard and International Business Machines, which are shifting resources to nanotech and should show profits from their efforts, at least down the line. Whether those profits can help the stocks at these huge companies remains to be seen. 

Still, there are reasons to focus on the sector. In some ways, companies getting a head start on nanotechnology have a leg up on the Internet entrepreneurs because there are real barriers to entry in this world, as opposed to the Internet. Three guys with a garage and a business plan could get investors enthused during the Internet bubble, but real expertise is needed to get a nanotechnology company going. 

--- 


Nanotech Specialists 
 
   Some of the companies pushing to be leaders in nanotechnology. 
 
   -- IBM 
   -- Intel 
   -- Hewlett Packard 
   -- General Electric 
   -- Harris & Harris 
   -- Nanogen 
   -- Nanophase Technologies 
   -- Veeco Instruments 
   

Document J000000020040120e01k0000q


More Like This

 Article 344 *******************    



Technology Brief: ZettaCore Inc. 

166 words 
20 January 2004
The Wall Street Journal
c7
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

ZettaCore Inc., which is developing a way to manipulate individual molecules to make memory chips, said it raised $17.5 million from a group of investors led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the prominent Silicon Valley venture-capital firm. ZettaCore's technology is based on custom-tailored molecules, called multiporphyrin nanostructures, which can be used to store information by adding or removing electrons and detecting the state of a molecule's electrical charge. Randy Levine, the company's chief executive, said the approach makes it possible to squeeze more data into a smaller space on a chip, but still take advantage of most conventional tools for making chips. The company expects the first products based on its chips to go on sale in two to three years, Mr. Levine said. As part of the new funding deal, Kleiner Perkins General Partner Vinod Khosla will join ZettaCore's board. Other directors include Less Vadasz, a former executive vice president of Intel Corp. 

Document J000000020040120e01k0001q


More Like This

 Article 345 *******************    



What's News
Business and Finance

Business and Finance 

498 words 
20 January 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

JOAN KROC'S ESTATE plans to make a $1.5 billion cash donation to the Salvation Army. The lump-sum bequest by the late widow of McDonald's founder Ray Kroc will be one of the largest individual charitable gifts ever. The money is earmarked for the building of new centers and the group's endowment. 

--- 

Kimberly-Clark announced a reorganization in the wake of a price war with P&G and said the executive in charge of its global personal-care business will retire. 

--- 

GM, Ford and Daimler joined a challenge to block hospital-expansion plans in Detroit's suburbs, fearing higher medical costs. 

--- 

Bertelsmann plans to oust Daniel Brewster as CEO of its Gruner + Jahr magazine unit after a tenure marred by setbacks. 

--- 

Europe's top finance officials signaled a new stance on the surging euro, stressing a desire for stability and not strength. 

--- 

Honeywell said a deal to sell its Bendix brake-pad business to Federal-Mogul collapsed, a setback to settling asbestos claims. 

--- 

The housing market should remain healthy this year and could rival last year's if low rates continue, a builders' group forecast. 

--- 

Nanotechnology shares have been soaring, even though the makers of tiny particles used in manufacturing have no earnings. 

--- 

Conrad Black filed suit to prevent interference with a deal to sell his controlling stake in Hollinger to Britain's Press Holdings. 

--- 

Alfa will divest itself of its 90% interest in its Hylsamex steel unit by issuing shares to the Mexican conglomerate's shareholders. 

--- 

The FDA is planning to increase its scrutiny of a number of herbal supplements following its decision to ban ephedra. 

--- 

Deutsche Bank's CEO is set to go to trial this week in connection with bonuses paid in Voda-fone's takeover of Mannesmann. 

--- 

Bank of China and China Construction Bank plan to diversify their businesses in preparation for listing on overseas exchanges. 

--- 

The recording industry plans to step up its fight abroad against illegal downloading amid increasing music piracy outside the U.S. 

--- 

Siemens is expected to report that its mobile-phone shipments surged more than 35% in the fourth quarter from a year earlier. 

--- 

Accor will merge its casino business with that owned by Groupe Lucien Barriere and investment fund Colony Capital. 

--- 

KPMG reported a 13% increase in the firm's global revenue in dollar terms for fiscal 2003. 

--- 

Markets -- 

Stocks:Closed for Martin Luther King Jr. Day. The DJ industrials10600.51, 46.66 Fri.; Nasdaq composite2140.46, 31.38 Fri.; 

S&P 500 index1139.83, 7.78. 

Bonds:Closed. On Fri., 10-yr Treas. was 16/32, yld 4.029%; 30-yr Treas. 17/32, yld 4.893%. 

Dollar:107.26 yen, +0.54; euro $1.2352, -0.21 cent against the dollar. 

Commodities:Closed. Oil futures $35.07 a barrel, $1.63 Fri.; Gold (Comex) $406.70 per troy ounce, 1.70; Dow Jones-AIG futures 139.949, 2.535. 

Document J000000020040120e01k00004


More Like This

 Article 346 *******************    



Inside Wall Street

Why CombiMatrix Is Going Gaga Over Nano 

By Gene G. Marcial 
260 words 
26 January 2004
BusinessWeek
108
Number 3867
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Nanotech is the Street's latest buzzword. Technology Review, put out by Massachusetts Institute of Technology, calls it the key materials technology for this century, capable of altering the performance of drugs, chemicals, and computers. So investors are chasing nano stocks. Enter CombiMatrix (CBMX), whose stock climbed from 3 in mid-December to 5.39 on Jan. 14. First featured in this column on Feb. 3, 2003, at 2.90, CombiMatrix makes micro-biochips that perform DNA diagnostics and detect hazardous chemicals. In December, the U.S. Army inked a pact with CombiMatrix to develop microchips for detecting hazardous biotech agents. CombiMatrix' partner, Nanomaterials Discovery, has just agreed to use CombiMatrix' biochips to develop fuel cells, rechargeable lithium batteries, and phosphors for flat-panel displays. Jonathan Aschoff of Brean Murray says Nanomaterials Discovery has a patent on using its own technology and CombiMatrix' biochips to discover new nanomaterials. 

Aschoff, who rates CombiMatrix a strong buy, says its microchips shorten the discovery process. Aschoff has a 12-month target of 8, and expects the company to turn profitable this year, with earnings of 45 cents a share. 

Note: Unless otherwise noted, neither the sources cited in Inside Wall Street nor their firms hold positions in the stocks under discussion. Similarly, they have no investment banking or other financial relationships with them. 

See Gene on Fridays at 1:20 p.m. EST on CNNfn's The Money Gang. 

Illustration: Chart: LURING NEW INVESTORS CHARTS BY ERIC HOFFMANN/BW 


Document BW00000020040122e01q0000p


More Like This

Retrieving article(s)...

 Article 347 *******************    



Ahead of the Tape

Ahead of the Tape 

445 words 
26 January 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[Today's Market Forecast] 

The Sysco Story 

Witnessing the return to rampant speculation in such areas as nanotechnology, it's easy to lament how little people learned from the bubble. 

But the bear market has lessons for the overly skeptical, as well. The recovery in shares of Sysco, the dominant food-distribution company, is such an object lesson. Sysco reports its fiscal second-quarter earnings today. 

Last spring, the Dutch supermarket chain Ahold's U.S. Foodservice unit, the No. 2 player in food distribution, became embroiled in an accounting scandal. A logical conclusion was that this wasn't specific to U.S. Foodservice, but general to the industry. After all, dot-com and telecom accounting gimmicks were standard operating procedure, not the work of rogue operators. Investors sold off Sysco's stock, even though no accounting issue surfaced at the company. 

The moment served as an occasion to ask tough questions about Sysco's future growth. In the past year, however, Sysco delivered resounding answers. Revenue and earnings shot up. Some of the financials were stunning: Return on equity was 36% in the fiscal year ended in June, while return on investment was 32%. The stock rose more than 50% from mid-March. 

Sysco has benefited from U.S. Foodservice's problems, but it hasn't been a major reason for its continued success. Instead, Sysco has continued to gain share, cut costs and hawk its private label brand, the fourth-largest food brand in America, according to Lehman's Mitch Speiser. The brand carries higher margins and costs less for Sysco's clientele, including independent restaurants, chains and institutions, like universities. 

Two weeks ago, the company detailed its plan to reconfigure its supply chain, starting later this year. FTN Midwest Research's Jason Whitmer argues this warehouse consolidation initiative will provide even more cost savings. 

Is the stock attractive now, given the natural risks such a big initiative brings with it? The shares trade at about 23.5 times Mr. Whitmer's estimate for calendar 2004 earnings. But investors have paid more for this company, which has had organic sales growth of over 6% and average earnings growth of 18% over the past six years. 

The obvious question is whether Sysco's growth and financials are too good to last. The number of independent restaurants, which are disproportionately profitable for Sysco, is declining. 

But Sysco has merely a 13% share of the U.S. food-distribution market, and few competitors seem positioned well to threaten the company soon. 

--- 

Send comments to tape@wsj.com and check today for some letters at WSJ.com/Tape 

Document J000000020040126e01q0002t


More Like This

 Article 348 *******************    



Short Interest Highlights 

1,895 words 
28 January 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C14
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


                                   LARGEST SHORT POSITIONS 
 
 RANK                              JAN 15         DEC 15        CHANGE 
 
 1  Microsoft Corp             194,388,395     196,438,476   -2,050,081 
 2  Cisco Systems               82,660,278      86,884,987   -4,224,709 
 3  Intel Corp                  78,538,948      71,218,544    7,320,404 
 4  Nextel Comm                 56,496,712      76,320,219  -19,823,507 
 5  Oracle Corp                 55,281,376      46,514,074    8,767,302 
 6  Level 3 Communicat          53,118,394      46,885,124    6,233,270 
 7  JDS Uniphase                49,566,558      41,214,101    8,352,457 
 8  Sirius Satellite            48,618,088      68,323,379  -19,705,291 
 9  InterActiveCorp             47,849,355      45,658,169    2,191,186 
10  Conexant Systems            46,377,665      32,892,628   13,485,037 
11  XM Satellite Radio          41,974,105      41,247,748      726,357 
12  Juniper Networks            39,669,371      36,607,470    3,061,901 
13  Sun Microsystems            39,668,280      49,974,914  -10,306,634 
14  Amazon.com                  34,113,937      33,709,017      404,920 
15  eBay Inc                    33,698,872      34,184,945     -486,073 
16  Comcast Corp A              33,669,911      34,846,841   -1,176,930 
17  Dell Inc                    31,857,714      31,596,049      261,665 
18  Applied Materials           31,572,123      27,309,186    4,262,937 
19  Yahoo! Inc                  31,503,896      31,831,564     -327,668 
20  ADC Telecommun              30,888,501      33,668,966   -2,780,465 
21  Charter Comm A              28,376,551      31,398,077   -3,021,526 
22  Comcast Corp A Spl          27,277,026      25,921,396    1,355,630 
23  Qualcomm Inc                27,210,649      25,598,912    1,611,737 
24  WebMD Corp                  25,874,026      25,745,834      128,192 
25  Cree Inc                    22,128,047      20,733,075    1,394,972 
26  Amgen Inc                   21,065,598      19,237,459    1,828,139 
27  Corvis Corp                 20,036,504      17,124,721    2,911,783 
28  Symantec Corp               19,724,059      20,674,853     -950,794 
29  RF Micro Devices            18,782,210      22,431,181   -3,648,971 
30  Flextronics Int'l           18,332,229      21,506,006   -3,173,777 
 
                                    LARGEST CHANGES 
 
   INCREASES (in shares) 
 
 RANK                              JAN 15         DEC 15        CHANGE 
 
 1  Conexant Systems            46,377,665      32,892,628   13,485,037 
 2  Oracle Corp                 55,281,376      46,514,074    8,767,302 
 3  JDS Uniphase                49,566,558      41,214,101    8,352,457 
 4  Intel Corp                  78,538,948      71,218,544    7,320,404 
 5  Level 3 Communicat          53,118,394      46,885,124    6,233,270 
 6  Powerwave Technol           11,833,636       7,350,345    4,483,291 
 7  Applied Materials           31,572,123      27,309,186    4,262,937 
 8  Homestore Inc                7,336,933       3,549,122    3,787,811 
 9  Career Education             6,185,510       2,405,390    3,780,120 
10  Adaptec Inc                  8,095,777       4,513,288    3,582,489 
11  Kmart Holding Corp           9,544,072       6,185,528    3,358,544 
12  Juniper Networks            39,669,371      36,607,470    3,061,901 
13  Ivanhoe Energy               4,854,556       1,933,797    2,920,759 
14  Corvis Corp                 20,036,504      17,124,721    2,911,783 
15  Aspen Technology             7,821,724       4,912,592    2,909,132 
16  Avanex Corp                 12,696,820       9,806,965    2,889,855 
17  Millennium Pharma           14,063,023      11,186,600    2,876,423 
18  TiVo Inc                    14,718,136      11,966,841    2,751,295 
19  Electronic Arts             13,729,088      11,104,203    2,624,885 
20  KLA-Tencor Corp             12,560,999      10,064,468    2,496,531 
 
   DECREASES (in shares) 
 
 1  Nextel Comm                 56,496,712      76,320,219  -19,823,507 
 2  Sirius Satellite            48,618,088      68,323,379  -19,705,291 
 3  UnitedGlobalCom A           11,280,051      29,245,765  -17,965,714 
 4  Sun Microsystems            39,668,280      49,974,914  -10,306,634 
 5  Extreme Networks             6,512,707      13,927,984   -7,415,277 
 6  PMC-Sierra Inc              14,303,089      19,618,611   -5,315,522 
 7  Activision Inc               3,209,811       8,273,947   -5,064,136 
 8  Tellabs Inc                  8,198,265      12,702,969   -4,504,704 
 9  Cisco Systems               82,660,278      86,884,987   -4,224,709 
10  aaiPharma Inc                6,405,644      10,087,854   -3,682,210 
11  RF Micro Devices            18,782,210      22,431,181   -3,648,971 
12  Mesa Air Group               4,318,108       7,832,845   -3,514,737 
13  Ciena Corp                  16,469,673      19,977,256   -3,507,583 
14  Siebel Systems Inc          11,943,217      15,389,770   -3,446,553 
15  Brocade Comm                 6,397,922       9,699,585   -3,301,663 
16  Flextronics Int'l           18,332,229      21,506,006   -3,173,777 
17  Charter Comm A              28,376,551      31,398,077   -3,021,526 
18  ADC Telecommun              30,888,501      33,668,966   -2,780,465 
19  Stemcells Inc                   50,986       2,634,792   -2,583,806 
20  Gilead Sciences              6,890,430       9,091,312   -2,200,882 
21  Medimmune Inc                7,194,218       9,337,053   -2,142,835 
22  Earthlink Inc                7,901,549      10,026,192   -2,124,643 
23  Biogen Idec Inc             17,575,412      19,682,355   -2,106,943 
24  Microsoft Corp             194,388,395     196,438,476   -2,050,081 
25  UTStarcom Inc               9,454,22223      11,494,305   -2,040,082 
 
                             LARGEST SHORT INTEREST RATIOS 
 
   The short interest ratio is the number of days it would take to cover the 
short interest if trading continued at the average daily volume for the 
month. 
 
                               JAN 15          AVG DLY         DAYS TO 
 RANK                         SHORT INT         VOL-a           COVER 
 
 1  Trans Wld Entertn         2,921,296         37,444            78 
 2  Renaissance Learng        2,478,525         45,064            55 
 3  ICU Medical Inc           4,518,420         85,480            53 
 4  ParkerVision Inc          1,563,674         32,859            48 
 5  Research Frontiers        1,560,014         40,455            39 
 6  Aksys Ltd                 4,785,199        128,729            37 
 7  Integrated Alarm          7,769,691        210,794            37 
 8  Mobile Mini Inc           2,089,252         58,360            36 
 9  1-800 Contacts              934,734         27,085            35 
10  Portfolio Recovery        3,282,714         97,983            34 
11  Abiomed Inc               1,667,443         51,907            32 
12  Foamex Int'l Inc          2,769,636         86,489            32 
13  Conceptus Inc             7,572,528        239,793            32 
14  Capitol Fedl Fin'l        1,254,374         40,344            31 
15  Creo Inc                  1,192,567         40,051            30 
16  Med-Design Corp           1,570,251         55,343            28 
17  Hudson Highland           2,190,863         80,184            27 
18  Zi Corp                   1,190,434         43,694            27 
19  Medis Technol             1,540,848         58,777            26 
20  Galyan's Trading          2,706,441        104,202            26 
 
   Issues that split in the latest month are excluded. The largest percentage 
increase and decrease sections are limited to issues with previously 
established short positions in both months. 
 
                                    LARGEST % INCREASES 
 
 RANK                              JAN 15         DEC 15        CHANGE 
 
 1  Chromavision Medic          2,179,708        9,478       22,897.6 
 2  Fst Virtual Comms             159,956        1,292       12,280.5 
 3  Comarco Inc                   208,171        4,165        4,898.1 
 4  Modem Media Inc               675,248       14,945        4,418.2 
 5  ChipMOS Technol               475,157       14,894        3,090.3 
 6  Inergy LP                     780,892       27,728        2,716.3 
 7  Applied Innovation            170,453        7,457        2,185.8 
 8  Hanaro Telcom ADS             131,472        8,312        1,481.7 
 9  Strategic Diagnost            476,277       35,070        1,258.1 
10  JMAR Technologies             255,549       22,600        1,030.7 
11  TeleComms Sys A               701,805       67,202          944.3 
12  Fst Essex Bncrp               281,684       27,834          912.0 
13  Harris & Harris Gp            995,551      129,630          668.0 
14  Vasomedical Inc               413,724       59,378          596.8 
15  Globecomm Systems             190,718       29,291          551.1 
16  Golar LNG Ltd                 657,132      110,557          494.4 
17  Daugherty Rsrcs               429,829       72,583          492.2 
18  Spacehab Inc                  227,926       40,400          464.2 
19  Avici Systems                 556,696      100,116          456.1 
20  Landec Corp                   157,355       29,620          431.2 
21  Volvo AB ADS                  590,181      116,309          407.4 
22  Cardinal Fin'l                207,839       45,071          361.1 
23  IPC Hldgs Ltd                 310,711       70,489          340.8 
24  Endo Pharma                 3,014,945      700,717          330.3 
25  Calif Amplifier               225,873       54,585          313.8 
26  Siliconix Inc                 218,777       58,719          272.6 
27  Nanophase Technol           1,214,627      334,150          263.5 
28  TLC Vision Corp               708,376      198,667          256.6 
29  Trident Microsys            1,147,711      329,474          248.3 
30  Quidel Corp                 1,150,143      330,300          248.2 
31  Sorrento Networks             673,433      193,591          247.9 
32  Pharmion Corp                 249,851       73,059          242.0    

(MORE) 


33  Delcath Systems               436,220      130,301          234.8 
34  Tropical Sportswr             911,158      275,787          230.4 
35  Axonyx Inc                  2,991,923      914,310          227.2 
 
                                   LARGEST % DECREASES 
 
 RANK                              JAN 15         DEC 15        CHANGE 
 
 1  North Amer Technol              2,745      190,774          -98.6 
 2  Stemcells Inc                  50,986    2,634,792          -98.1 
 3  Waterfd Wedgewd                 4,984      224,571          -97.8 
 4  Intervest Bncshs A              3,851      150,891          -97.4 
 5  Pacific Mercantile              4,890      188,348          -97.4 
 6  Childtime Learning              5,699      152,013          -96.3 
 7  NPTest Holding                 53,783    1,116,200          -95.2 
 8  AESP Inc                        9,932      197,429          -95.0 
 9  Applix Inc                     21,511      248,776          -91.4 
10  Collagenex Pharma              82,592      801,537          -89.7 
11  Network Engines               183,851    1,727,999          -89.4 
12  Optical Comm                   55,796      523,763          -89.3 
13  SBS Broadcasting               70,643      470,620          -85.0 
14  Novoste Corp                  140,502      738,321          -81.0 
15  Focus Enhancements             41,279      197,907          -79.1 
16  Eden Bioscience               126,274      538,190          -76.5 
17  Provident Bncp                169,547      669,162          -74.7 
18  Sify Ltd ADS                  232,126      842,798          -72.5 
19  New Valley wts                214,883      774,938          -72.3 
20  Barnes & Noble.com            202,433      720,253          -71.9 
21  Quovadx Inc                   329,978    1,138,464          -71.0 
22  LECG Cp                        51,930      178,243          -70.9 
23  EVCI Career Colleges           78,327      268,422          -70.8 
24  Net Servicos Comm             264,432      885,336          -70.1 
25  Commtouch Softwr              125,731      386,290          -67.5 
26  Infinity Prp & Cas            145,956      444,452          -67.2 
27  Penn Nat'l Gaming             660,454    1,981,691          -66.7 
28  Bluefly Inc                    92,407      256,948          -64.0 
29  EP MedSystems Inc              99,373      275,803          -64.0 
30  Nissan Motor ADS              144,230      393,379          -63.3 
31  UnitedGlobalCom A          11,280,051   29,245,765          -61.4 
32  Activision Inc              3,209,811    8,273,947          -61.2 
33  Datatec Systems               277,896      694,940          -60.0 
34  Cardima Inc                   706,901    1,755,090          -59.7 
35  BioCryst Pharma                89,397      217,381          -58.9 
    

Document J000000020040128e01s0003a


More Like This

 Article 349 *******************    



Developments to Watch

INNOVATIONS; Of memory, tubes, and mosquitoes 

By Catherine Arnst Edited by Otis Port 
188 words 
2 February 2004
BusinessWeek
76
Number 3868
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

-- A new potential target for Alzheimer's drugs has been identified. Bonnie Firestein, an assistant professor at Rutgers University, and her team have zeroed in on a protein that controls the growth of brain-cell branches, called dendrites. Impairment of these branches has been linked with several brain disorders, including memory and learning problems. 

-- Michael Crichton may be on to something. In his novel Prey, he describes swarms of nanoparticles that attack their creators. Researchers at the University of Rochester have found that carbon nanotubes measuring 35 nanometers (or billionths of a meter) in diameter could be detected in the brains of rats after being inhaled. Researchers also believe that nanoparticles in diesel fuel can cause respiratory problems in humans. 

-- Mosquitoes respond to a chemical found in human sweat, according to a research team from Yale and Vanderbilt universities. Called 4-methyphenol, it is one of more than 350 chemicals contained in sweat, and it strongly activates an odor receptor found in female mosquitoes, which are the ones that feed on blood. 

Document BW00000020040129e0220002b


More Like This

 Article 350 *******************    



Abreast of the Market

What Lessons Learned? Markets Echo '99 --- Skeptics Say Stocks Have Formed An `Echo Bubble' That Will Pop; But There Are Differences Now 

By E.S. Browning 
1,549 words 
2 February 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

SOME OF THE warning signs are there. 

Tiny companies with no prospect of profits have soared on the stock market. Stock touts are back in Internet chat rooms. The Nasdaq Composite Index, left for dead during the bear market, soared 50% last year. One of the biggest questions on investors' minds now is whether they are in a robust new bull market or a dangerous bubble. 

"I think there is a minibubble in one component of the market," the more-volatile end of the technology business, says Dennis Ferro, chief investment officer at Evergreen Investments, the money-management unit of banking giant Wachovia Corp. 

But like many money managers, Mr. Ferro doesn't believe he is witnessing a return to the sort of mania that created the bubble of 1999 and the prolonged bear market of 2000 to 2002. 

"I think there are many opportunities in other parts of the market on which people can focus their stock investments," Mr. Ferro says. 

The skeptics worry that investors didn't learn their lesson during the bear market. They fear that stocks have entered an "echo bubble" that will send the market down heavily and help destroy many people's confidence in stocks. 

"It certainly feels like the market is going up because snake-oil salesmen are again convincing the naive and myopic that stocks can and will go straight up from here now that the economy is getting better, and in case you forgot, the Internet is the future," wrote Clifford Asness, managing principal of New York hedge fund AQR Capital Management, which manages $9.5 billion, in a recent letter to clients. 

Some of those worries could be seen in the stock market last week, when stocks fell for a second consecutive week. Including a decline of 22.22 points, or 0.21%, on Friday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 80.22 points, or 0.76%, last week to 10488.07, leaving it up a mere 0.33% for the month of January. 

The Nasdaq Stock Market finished the week at 2066.15, still 60% below the record close of 5048.62 in March 2000. The more-staid Dow Jones industrials, which fell less during the bear market, now are only about 11% below their record close of 11722.98, also hit in 2000. 

Many money managers insist they have learned their lessons. 

"We all have gotten a pretty good dose of religion from those down markets," says David Briggs, head of stock trading at Pittsburgh mutual-fund group Federated Investors. "Personally, I am more conservative than I was back then." 

During the bubble years, he recalls, in his personal investments, he happily bought and sold small Internet stocks with no earnings and no prospects of earnings. Today, "I am not playing in volatile stocks that don't have any earnings. We are focusing on stocks that have good management teams and real earnings," he says. 

Clearly there are plenty of people who are willing to jump into the speculative pool again. Some are investing, for example, in companies that are developing a hot emerging business called nanotechnology, which focuses on using microscopic components to improve the efficiency of medical devices, communications equipment and other gear. Some of these companies have seen their stocks soar despite a lack of earnings. 

"That is an example, I think, of a speculative casino-type mentality that has crept into our market," Mr. Briggs acknowledges. 

There are other signs. Internet stocks themselves are back. Amazon.com. shares nearly tripled last year. Rambus, which makes chip technology used in networking, more than quadrupled. 

To the dismay of traditional-minded money managers, it is these volatile stocks that have led the gains since the rebound began in October 2002, 15 months ago. 

After the Bush administration cut tax rates on dividends, many pundits thought investors would shift toward dividend-paying stocks. Instead, they have gone for the gusto. The 100 stocks with the highest dividend yields in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose less than the overall index last year. They have risen more slowly than the index this year. 

Of 10 major sectors in the stock market, the technology sector has left everything else in its dust since October 2002, according to Dow Jones Indexes. Technology stocks as a group have doubled since Oct. 9, 2002. Other strong sectors, such as industrial and financial stocks, have gained about 50%. 

Technology stocks slowed toward the end of last year, as some investors took profits and shifted toward other groups. But they have come back this year and once again show the largest gains. 

Also of concern to some investors is that the technology-stock surge seems to be powered by the same fuel that powered it during 1999: monetary stimulus. As was the case in 1999, when the Federal Reserve was worried about possible computer glitches in the year 2000, low interest rates and easy money have provided more cash than companies can invest in their businesses, and a lot of that money has found its way into stocks. 

As a percentage of their companies' earnings, stocks are priced well above average historic levels. The S&P 500 trades at about 24 times its companies' earnings for the past year, compared with a historic average of 15 or 16, according to research and money-management group Birinyi Associates in Westport, Conn. 

The S&P 500 trades at 19 times forecast earnings for the coming year. An index of 100 of the largest stocks traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market trades at 54 times earnings for the past year and 35 times forecast earnings. 

Those are heady numbers, which can be justified only by the view that stocks deserve high prices when interest rates are low and the economy is booming. To the relief of those who think stocks are fairly priced, however, the numbers still are lower than at the height of the bubble. In 1999, the S&P 500 traded as high as 36 times its companies' earnings for the previous year. In early 2000, the Nasdaq 100 traded as high as 165 times trailing earnings. 

"I don't think we necessarily have to take it to excess this time," says James Griffin, portfolio advisor at ING Investment Management in New York. New technologies, together with the globalization of business, are creating much higher business productivity, meaning that "the economy has the capability to grow faster for a longer period of time before inflation sets in," Mr. Griffin says. He is betting that technology stocks will keep beating the market for some time to come. 

A warning sign that something was wrong at the height of the bubble was that only a select group of favored stocks still was rising then. Those stocks pushed the indexes higher, but most individual stocks didn't follow. Something similar happened in the 1970s, when a small group called the Nifty Fifty pushed indexes up during a previous bubble. 

This time, the great majority of stocks are taking part. All 10 of the Dow Jones stock sectors are up since Oct. 9, 2002, and all 10 are up since Oct. 9, 2003. 

Such a broad advance usually isn't indicative of a bubble. 

And while Internet stock touts are back, they aren't getting the following they did in the 1990s. Then, money-losing technology companies were going public in initial public offerings so fast that, in many weeks, two dozen or more new ones sought stock listings. The new-listings calendar for the current week contains 11 names. 

"I don't think I will live to see the Nasdaq at 5000 again, but I don't think I will have to live too long to see the Dow at a new high," says Alfred Kugel, chief investment strategist at Chicago money-management concern Stein Roe Investment Counsel, who is 73 years old. 

--- 

Friday's Market Activity 

Yellow Roadway fell $5.01, or 14%, to $31.40, after the transportation-services provider posted weaker-than-expected fourth-quarter results, which analysts said reflected a loss of market share to competitors. 

Nortel Networks, a telecommunications-equipment supplier, surged 1.24, or 19%, to 7.82, after surpassing analysts' expectations for its fourth-quarter earnings and issuing a bullish outlook. 

Goldman Sachs Group downgraded its stock rating on General Motors to "in-line" from "outperform," and shares fell 1.03, or 2%, to 49.68. The brokerage house said higher interest rates "will be punishing to auto demand." 

Walt Disney declined 45 cents, or 1.8%, to 24, after Pixar Animation Studios (Nasdaq) called off talks to continue their co-production partnership. Pixar jumped 2.19, or 3.4%, to 66.39. 

Gilead Sciences (Nasdaq) fell 5.88, or 9.7%, to 54.81, after the biopharmaceuticals company forecast slimmer sales of its two key drugs this year than many on Wall Street had expected. 

-- Cynthia Schreiber 

(See related article: "Deals & Deal Makers: Bankers Swear They've Repented And That Enron-Like Covenants That Fooled Investors Are Gone" -- WSJ Feb. 2, 2004) 

Document J000000020040202e0220001v


More Like This

 Article 351 *******************    



Be Creative, Not Protectionist 

By Carly Fiorina 
816 words 
13 February 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A12
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Nineteen years ago, a group of leaders from American business, labor, government and academia issued a report that raised alarm bells in Washington. The report argued that America's ability to compete in world markets was eroding in the face of emerging industries and low-wage workers in Japan and other Pacific Rim nations. 

The President's Commission on Industrial Competitiveness, as the group was called, had a simple message: America's workers have always been the best, most creative workers in the world, but they needed a national strategy for competitiveness that was as innovative and creative as they were. Rejecting arguments for protectionism, the commission called on the public and private sectors to invest in keeping America strong in the world-wide economy -- by promoting R&D of new technology, improving education and training, and lowering deficits to improve the cost of capital for business. If that formula sounds familiar, it should. It's exactly the strategy America pursued in the late '80s and '90s, creating more than 35 million new jobs and producing the longest period of economic expansion in our history -- including a whole new IT sector, whose jobs pay, on average, 75% higher than other jobs. 

That commission's message seems more relevant than ever as the debate over the outsourcing of white-collar tech jobs heats up in this election year. Once again, our leadership is being challenged -- not by Japan, but by emerging nations like India, Russia and China. What makes this challenge different is that these nations not only share rich educational heritages, but they are investing heavily in innovation and R&D to help drive the next generation of growth. In China, IT spending is increasing at an annual rate of more than 15%. 

Not only do our competitors have increasingly knowledgeable work forces, but they can compete for jobs that were once the sole province of the developed world. There is much outcry over this new reality, but not much constructive action. That's why I tried to provoke debate last month when I said, "There is no job that is America's God-given right anymore." Now, more than ever, other nations are developing the skills to compete for jobs that would have historically been done by Americans. We shouldn't assume that they won't make an effort to win them. But we should work to keep America what it has always been: the world's most resourceful, productive and innovative country. 

Thus far, attention has focused on a handful of companies, like HP, which have sourced some jobs to other countries. As happened with Japan in the late '80s, everyone from presidential candidates to unions to state legislatures to Congressmen are offering protectionist proposals to limit or prohibit the practice. Jobs are a gut-wrenching issue. And there's no question that companies that source jobs overseas have an obligation to help workers left behind get the tools they need to find jobs and succeed. But let's not forget the lesson that Japan itself learned in the '90s: when you build walls to protect your own workers, in the long run you end up hurting them. 

Any job losses to foreign countries are particularly painful when the U.S. economy is failing to produce net job gains. Every job is important because each one represents an American's livelihood and ability to raise a family. Yet spending our time building walls around America will do nothing to help us compete for the millions of new jobs being created. Instead, we must focus on developing next-generation industries and next-generation talent -- in fields like biotechnology, nanotechnology and digital media distribution; around issues like IT security, mobility and manageability -- that will create long-term growth and jobs here at home, while raising all of our living standards in the process. 

That's why the eight member-companies of the IT industry's think tank, the Computer Systems Policy Project, have invested $80 billion in R&D, capital expenditures, education and employee training here the past three years alone. We're betting on -- and investing in -- America. It's why HP, with a market presence in 178 countries, will always be based here, and why we have 60,000 workers here -- because America is the most innovative country on earth. It won't stay that way if we run away from the reality of the global economy. We must do what Americans have always done -- work to keep our country in the lead, by making it the most competitive and creative of all nations. We don't have a second to waste. The rest of the world isn't waiting. 

--- 

Ms. Fiorina is chairman of Hewlett-Packard. 

--- 

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: No Commitment to the American Worker" -- WSJ Feb. 20, 2004) 

Document J000000020040213e02d0003b


More Like This

 Article 352 *******************    



Hot or Not 

Erika Brown 
272 words 
16 February 2004
Forbes
98
Volume 172 Issue 16
English
(c) 2004 Forbes Inc. 

Play along with the pros. Here is where the best minds in venture will--and won't--put their money in 2004. 

Kevin Compton 

Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers 

HOT: Materials science as it relates to nanotech in chip development, allowing for tinier geometries and hybrids of traditional and molecular memory. 

NOT: Everyone is trying to build spam filters. Microsoft is going to take care of that. 

Dixon Doll 

Doll Capital Management 

HOT: Services, infrastructure and applications for voice over the Internet. Plug-and-play broadband for consumers in Japan. Human resources in China. 

NOT: Storage area networks and social networking outfits. 

David Strohm 

Greylock 

HOT: Web-based software that helps companies manage sales, marketing, human resources and product demand. Tools to design submicron chips. 

NOT: Wi-Fi. Startups will have a hard time competing against titans like Cisco and Intel. 

Daniel Nova 

Highland Capital Partners 

HOT: E-commerce and Internet advertising are back. Also bullish on interactive gaming. 

NOT: Wi-Fi. It's overplayed. 

Rob L. Soni 

Matrix Partners 

HOT: Open-source databases, application servers and security software. New memory architectures that are fast and dense. 

NOT: Expensive enterprise software giants like Oracle, Siebel and SAP. There's a corporate backlash against maintenance revenue. 

Todd Dagres 

Battery Ventures 

HOT: The movie business is being Napstered. You'll be able to download a first-run movie on your computer and beam it to your TV, like a virtual cinema or virtual Blockbuster. 

NOT: Wi-Fi chip sets are overfunded; technology like this comes along and all the VCs think they need to have one. 

Back to article. 

Document FB00000020040202e02g0000x


More Like This

 Article 353 *******************    



New Stock Listings 

282 words 
18 February 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C17
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange began trading the shares of three companies, including one initial public offering. The Nasdaq began trading the shares of three companies, including two IPOs. 

The Big Board began trading the IPO of Bristol West Holdings Inc., of Davie, Fla., a car-insurance company, under the symbol BRW. The exchange also began trading the common shares of Laidlaw International Inc., of Naperville, Ill., a bus and health-care transportation company, LI; and Affordable Residential Communities Inc., of Denver, a real-estate investment trust, ARC. 

The Nasdaq National Market began trading the IPO of Atheros Communications Inc., of Sunnyvale, Calif., ATHR; and Corgentech Inc., of South San Francisco, Calif., CGTK. It also began trading the common shares of Columbia Laboratories Inc., of Miami, CBRX. 

The Chicago Board Options Exchange began listing options on Agere Systems Inc., Aluminium Corp. of China Ltd., AudioCodes Ltd., Avery Dennison Corp., Avici Systems Inc., Cardiac Science Inc., China Fund Inc., China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., China Unicom Ltd., ChipMOS Technologies Ltd., Cleveland-Cliffs Inc., Friedman, Billings, Ramsey Group Inc., General Mills Inc., Genome Therapeutics Corp., Harris & Harris Group Inc., iPass Inc., KCS Energy Inc., Keryx Biopharmaceuticals Inc., KVH Industries Inc., Matrixx Initiatives Inc., Nanophase Technologies Corp., Nextel Partners Inc., NII Holding Inc., ON Semiconductor Corp., RSA Security Inc., Redback Networks Inc., Sapient Corp., SpectraLink Corp., Sanofi-Synthelabo, Smurfit-Stone Container Corp., Teekay Shipping Corp., Tibco Software Inc., TLC Vision Corp., Tripath Technology Inc., Cia. Vale do Rio Doce and Zhone Technologies Inc. 

The CBOE began listing Long-term Equity AnticiPation Securities on At Road Inc., Forest Oil Cos., ITT Industries Inc., TV Azteca SA and Western Wireless Corp. 

Document J000000020040218e02i0003k


More Like This

 Article 354 *******************    



Technology Journal
Digits

Digits 

1,017 words 
19 February 2004
The Wall Street Journal
B3
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[Gambits & Gadgets in the World of Technology] 

Dealing for Dollars 

New Enterprise Associates has closed its 11th fund, pulling in $1.1 billion from a roster of investors that include private endowments and public pension funds, including those of states such as Virginia, Massachusetts and Washington. 

The firm, which has offices in Reston, Va., Menlo Park, Calif., and Baltimore, will use the money to invest in information-technology and health-care start-ups. NEA focuses most of its efforts on funding early-stage companies and plans to make investments that range from a few hundred thousand dollars to $50 million, says Peter Barris, the firm's managing general partner. 

The fund is the largest to be raised by a venture firm recently, as the industry has retrenched from the excesses of the technology bubble. This year, many venture capitalists are expected to return to investors and start new funds. So far, most of the funds are much smaller than those raised during the boom. 

Some industry watchers still think too much capital is sloshing around in the venture world, meaning it could be hard to find enough good deals to effectively invest all of the $1.1 billion. Mr. Barris disagrees. He points out that the new fund is half the size of NEA's Fund X, which closed in 2000 at $2.3 billion. Furthermore, he says, the fund has changed its mix and staffed up more in the health-care arena and less in information technology. Mr. Barris says many firms have reserved money for follow-on funding and now "need more dry powder." 

Slow Lane? 

Hard-charging Henry Nicholas III surprised the business world in early 2003 by stepping down as chief executive of Broadcom Corp., the communications-chip maker he drove at a relentless pace. The reason -- to spend more time with his family and then-estranged wife -- also surprised people who had seen the way Mr. Nicholas focused on business so single-mindedly. Yet he has consistently said he has no regrets about leaving the fast lane. "I would never start another company," Mr. Nicholas told the Orange County (Calif.) Register last summer. 

But that doesn't mean he doesn't plan to have an impact. Mr. Nicholas today plans to hold a news conference in San Juan Capistrano, Calif., to announce an initiative in technology for education. 

An advisory to promote the event says Mr. Nicholas, who is a billionaire, will announce a major gift from his foundation and "a collaboration with one of California's premier educational institutions." The goal: to dramatically improve learning, from the prekindergarten level through high school, "through the development of leading-edge technologies." Further details aren't available, but Mr. Nicholas is expected to stick to his pledge to keep taking things easier. 

Open Mouth, Swallow Pill 

Military planners are always on the lookout for ways to better equip U.S. troops and to minimize casualties. The Army even has a long-term initiative under way, its so-called Scorpion Project. These days, more high-tech types are jumping on the bandwagon. 

Among them: Performance Software Corp., a five-year old company based in Phoenix. PSC hopes to put itself on the map with a product it is developing thanks in part to recent advances in nanotechnology, which uses tiny particles to create and improve products. 

PSC hopes its Ad-hoc Network-Centric Physiological Monitor, still in development, will one day allow military planners, firefighters -- and even basketball and football coaches -- to monitor the vital signs of soldiers or players. Many other initiatives are under way to develop physiological monitors, including wearable ones. But PSC hopes to make an ingestible monitor, the size of a pill, that is easily swallowed and moves through a person's system. "It will measure a heartbeat raised to the point in danger of heat stroke or heart attack, or measure body temperatures to determine who is rescuable or not," says Raj Ghate, the company's director of business development. 

Some of PSC's technology is proprietary, and some isn't. But the company hopes to integrate it into a tracking network. 

More, More, More 

In the performance-obsessed world of high technology, hardware vendors love few things more than a chance to tout their own vigor. So it is with data-storage company EMC Corp., which shot off a half-dozen news releases last week to herald a slew of upgrades to its machines. "More power," said one release. "More performance," said a second. A third claimed of the new Symmetrix DMX-2: "The industry's highest level of storage system performance." 

That's got some rivals crying foul, especially because EMC doesn't participate in the benchmark tests run by the Storage Performance Council, an industry group of which EMC's major competitors are all members. 

"I just find the whole thing hypocritical," says Tom Hawk, an International Business Machines Corp. general manager who oversees high-end storage systems. "If you are going to focus your attention on raw performance . . . at a minimum, you would obviously want to participate in industry-related benchmarks." 

EMC says its performance claims are justified, and points to two charts it put out last year, when the original Symmetrix DMX was released. Those charts show the DMX well ahead of machines from IBM and Hitachi Ltd. on two of EMC's tests. The company says this year's claims are relative to those. 

Chuck Hollis, an EMC marketing vice president, says EMC runs tests in its in-house lab with "millions of dollars of test equipment and dozens of engineers." Mr. Hollis adds that he would happily show results and methodology to customers who ask (but not to competitors). He says EMC doesn't use the SPC test because it is easily gamed by vendors. 

--- 

Digits was complied by Ann Grimes with contributions from Don Clark and Charles Forelle. 

--- 

WSJ.com subscribers can see additional information on top stories, 24-hour updated news, stock quotes, company background information and more, in The Online Journal at WSJ.com/technology. 

Document J000000020040219e02j00048


More Like This

 Article 355 *******************    


First/Bulls Vs. Bears

The Stock Market Bubble, Take Two 

Bethany McLean 
806 words 
23 February 2004
Fortune
36
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

There once was a dot-com bubble That got the whole world into trouble You'd have thought we'd have learned Having once been badly burned But scams rise up from the rubble 

So goes a little ditty written by Cliff Asness, managing principal of hedge fund AQR Capital. He's one of the many skeptics who just doesn't believe that the almost indiscriminate rally in the equity markets--with stocks large and small, tech and nontech, famous and not-so-famous all soaring higher--is the end of the bad times and the beginning of a fresh bull market. Sure, the scorecard is almost irresistible: Last year the Dow returned 28%, the S&P 29%, and Nasdaq 51%; and all the indexes set new records in January. But can the three bad years--okay, three terrible years-- at the beginning of the century really be enough to cleanse away the remnants of the greatest bubble in history? 

Among skeptics, the problem isn't just that stocks have gone up but also the manner in which they've gone up. There's been an incredibly swift return to what looks a lot like speculation. Nanotech, anyone? How about Chinese Internet stocks? Day trading is back, margin debt is rising, and money is pouring into equity funds at the heaviest rate since March 2000. Some old uber-bulls have found new perches: Jeffrey Applegate, who was let go from Lehman in late 2002, just resurfaced as the CIO of Fiduciary Trust. And while many stocks have done well, shaky small companies have performed spectacularly. Last year, 474 stocks in the S&P 1500 were up over 50%, says Mike Weiner, a managing director at Banc One Investment Advisors. Most of them had less than $500 million in market capitalization or were priced below $5 a share at the year's beginning. "Junk pulverized quality" is the way Jeremy Grantham, chairman of Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo, puts it. 

There may be an explanation for all this--but it's not particularly comforting. After the Nikkei's big fall in 1990, it rallied some 30% before sliding back to set fresh lows. The Dow had dramatic rallies both after 1929's Black Monday and after the crash of 1968--but they didn't last. It's as if the market is a bouncing ball that can't just stop, but rather bounces again, just not as high. That first post-bubble rally even has a name: It's an "echo bubble," or in more technical terms, a "B Wave." 

Unfortunately, just like original bubbles, these too go splat. By spring 1938 the Dow had been cut in half again; it did not regain its 1929 peak until the 1950s. The same basic pattern held true in the 1970s. 

Grantham and his team have studied every single bubble, all 27 of them, from the famous ones (obvious) to the obscure ones (the 1980s nickel bubble). In every single correction all the bubble gains were wiped out before a new bull market started; prior great stock bubbles dramatically overcorrected and stayed there for some time. This time the S&P and Nasdaq bounced back quickly (as these things go). Another way to think about it is in terms of price/earnings ratios. Historically, the market's P/E is 16 times earnings, and in every single stock market correction--again, every single one--the ratio has fallen below that before a new bull market began. Yet this time the market in its darkest hours fell only to around 19 times earnings. 

Just as in 2000, there are plenty of optimists today--but they're not all wild-eyed perma-bulls who think stocks will return to their bubble heights. They sim-ply believe there are too many positives-- an upturn in global growth, technological advances, and possibly good things stemming from China--for fresh lows to be necessary. John Michaelson, president of Needham Asset Management, which went bearish on tech stocks in 1999, today is more optimistic about the overall market. This market isn't an echo bubble, he says, but rather "something we haven't seen before." 

Both sides do agree on one thing: There's a liquidity bubble courtesy of the Fed. If rock-bottom interest rates don't keep the economy rebounding, there's nowhere to turn. "Heightened risk doesn't mean something bad is going to happen," says longtime bear Bill Fleckenstein. "It just means that it'll be really nasty if it does." --Bethany McLean 

See also additional image(s) in Table of Contents of same issue. 

COLOR PHOTO: ANDREW JERABEK COLOR CHART: FORTUNE CHART Anyone Hear an Echo? Bears think the recent upturn is just a temporary bounce. 


Document FORTU00020040209e02n0000k


More Like This

 Article 356 *******************    



Developments to Watch: MILESTONES

A NANORULER THAT REALLY MEASURES UP 

By Faith Arner Edited by Adam Aston 
183 words 
23 February 2004
BusinessWeek
113
Number 3871
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

BUILDING A BETTER ruler sounds like making a better mousetrap -- is it really necessary? Yes, especially when it comes to dealing with atomic-scale engineering. Chip designers have long bemoaned the lack of an ultraprecise tool to help map the layouts of new chips. 

Now, after five years of work, researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology say they have one. Called Nanoruler, it is a machine that should help engineers pack more transistors into circuits, and more circuits onto silicon wafers, the plate-size disks that get chopped up into chips. The device can blanket the entire surface of today's biggest wafers with parallel lines just a few hundred nanometers apart. (A human hair is roughly 90,000 nm across.) The position of each line is accurate to 1 nm -- so precise, it's like hitting a nickel-size target in San Francisco from Manhattan. Mark Schattenburg, director of MIT's Space Nanotechnology Laboratory, says the high-tech ruler should be commercially available in 2005. 

Document BW00000020040219e02n00036


More Like This

 Article 357 *******************    



Developments to Watch: ONCOLOGY

TINY 'SMART BOMBS' VS. CANCER? 

By John Carey 
167 words 
1 March 2004
BusinessWeek
115
Number 3872
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

NANOTECHNOLOGY promises everything from faster computers to better cosmetics. But one of the first fruits of this ultra-tiny frontier may be in medical imaging. At Emory University, a team led by Shuming Nie has created semiconductor specks, dubbed quantum dots, that fluoresce when lit by a lamp. 

Injected into the body, these minuscule dots are just the right size to pass through the leaky blood vessels found around cancer cells and lodge near them. The researchers have also boosted the dots' tumor-finding ability by attaching antibodies that seek out cancer cells. 

In mice, the researchers showed that the technique can spot tiny clumps of cancer missed by existing methods. Toxicity issues must be worked out, but in theory, quantum dots could provide earlier detection of cancer, says Nie. And scientists are already thinking about adding drugs to the quantum dots to create ``smart bombs'' that can be tracked as they target cancer cells. 

Document BW00000020040301e0310000h


More Like This

 Article 358 *******************    



New Ways to Take Old Drugs Help Patients, Extend Patents 

By Rachel Zimmerman 
1,221 words 
15 March 2004
The Wall Street Journal
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

THE DRUG naltrexone was supposed to take away Frank Philip's desire to drink. Approved in 1984 to treat opiate addiction, it became a treatment for alcohol dependence a decade later and removes the urge to drink excessively. But Mr. Philip didn't take it consistently and that led him to return to imbibing again and again. 

"There were a few periods of relapse," says the 66-year-old Bostonian. 

In fact, naltrexone has been a bust, doctors say, mainly because patients such as Mr. Philip didn't take it as prescribed. But now, a biotechnology company is resuscitating the drug with a clever twist: an injectable version that lasts one month, removing patients' ability to change their minds every day. The experimental new formulation, called Vivitrex, is released in a constant dose by injection, avoiding the surge of medication followed by a drop when taken as a daily pill, and is now in late-stage tests conducted by Alkermes Inc. of Cambridge, Mass. 

Vivitrex is just one of a panoply of medications getting a new life through the science of "drug delivery." Some 47 biotechnology companies nationally, and a slew of academic researchers, are working exclusively on drug delivery, a field that has advanced far beyond early well-known innovations, such as the nicotine patch for smokers. Today, new drug-delivery methods are helping schizophrenics stay on their medication; compressing three Ritalin pills into one; and -- if an experimental technology works -- even enabling a nasal spray with near-instant effect for alleviating sexual dysfunction. 

New drug-delivery techniques are also a way for pharmaceutical companies to extend their patents. For instance, patents for naltrexone, marketed for alcohol dependence through a unit of DuPont Co. under the brand name ReVia, expired in 1998, after which several companies began selling a generic version. If approved, Vivitrex -- like most new drugs -- would have patent protection for seven years. With these new formulations, says Needham & Co. analyst Mark Monane, "what's old is new again." 

A six-month study of 624 patients found that Vivitrex significantly reduces heavy drinking, defined as more than five drinks a day, in men. With the highest studied dose of the drug, heavy-drinking episodes among males fell to an average of three days over a one-month period, down from a previous average of 19 days. That was 48% better than the study group getting a placebo injection; both groups got psychotherapy. Women on Vivitrex, however, did no better than those in the control group. 

"Alcoholism is a disease that corrupts the brain's sense of self-preservation and creates the conviction that drinking again can be good," says David Gastfriend, director of the addiction-research program at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Dr. Gastfriend, who is involved in the Alkermes trial, adds: "The fact that an injection is still working a month later cements the continuity of treatment and the benefits." 

Alkermes says it will file for Food and Drug Administration approval to market Vivitrex in the first half of next year. 

Another fertile area is schizophrenia, where up to 80% of patients skip doses or stop taking medicine altogether, putting them at risk for hospitalization or even suicide. Johnson & Johnson's Risperdal, approved in 1993, was one of a new wave of blockbuster antipsychotic medications that some doctors say revolutionized treatment of the disease by reducing side effects. A new, injectable version called Risperdal Consta, marketed by J&J with Alkermes's technology, involves one shot every two weeks of tiny microspheres that dissolve to release the drug slowly. Risperdal Consta, approved in October, is expected to have sales of up to $500 million within five years, says Matthew Dodds, an analyst with SG Cowen. 

Drug-delivery scientists are also working in the lucrative area of sexual dysfunction. The drug apomorphine, discovered in 1868, stimulates dopamine receptors in the brain that are responsible for initiating erections and other sexual responses. The drug is sold in Europe, but has not been licensed in the U.S. largely due to side effects including vomiting, nausea and fainting. 

But a new nasal spray, under development by Nastech Pharmaceutical Company Inc., of Bothell, Wash., delivers the drug directly to the bloodstream, making a lower dose possible, with fewer side effects. The drug also takes effect within five or 10 minutes, compared with the nearly one hour it takes for Viagra to work, says Nastech Chief Executive Steven Quay. 

Nastech is also testing apomorphine in women, and using its nasal-spray technology in early tests of an obesity medication, called PYY. A naturally produced hormone, PYY signals a feeling of fullness. 

Sometimes, the aim of drug-delivery technology is for convenience. Concerta, a morning, once-a-day version of Ritalin for kids with attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder has eclipsed the older three-pill-a-day regimen. Concerta, manufactured by J&J's Alza Corp. unit, has a pill coating that dissolves in an hour, releasing an initial dose of the active ingredient, methylphenidate. The rest is released slowly over the course of the day. Concerta -- which also reduces opportunities for illegal selling of tablets -- is now the top-prescribed medication for ADHD, with over $614 million in U.S. sales last year, according to research firm IMS Health. 

On another front, a highly experimental drug-delivery system that is now being tested in animals could ultimately improve cancer therapy. 

At the University of Pennsylvania, Dennis Discher, professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering, is testing smaller-than-microscopic "nanoscale polymer devices" that mimic viruses. The polymer-based devices insert themselves into cells and release drugs. The cancer drug Taxol, for example, could be released directly into targeted cells, likely causing fewer side effects than the current oral version, which has side effects that include nerve damage. 

In the long run, changes in drug delivery may make daily pills obsolete for certain disorders. Steve Siegel, a psychiatrist at the University of Pennsylvania's Stanley Center for Experimental Therapeutics in Psychiatry, is currently testing a surgical implant, a small disk placed under the skin, to deliver schizophrenia medicine for one year. 

The removable implant currently uses the older schizophrenia drug, Haldol, but could be adapted to hold other medications. It dissolves slowly to release medicine. The new formulation, now in animal testing, would "take all the forgetting, all the logistics out of the equation," Dr. Siegel says. 

However, some think an implant that lasts a full year may be taking the concept too far. "This is the road to involuntary medicating," says Vera Sharav, a patient advocate and president of the Alliance for Patient Research Protection. "Do you know how much suffering would have to go on before it's removed? It could be used in prisons, in hospitals, wherever." 

--- 


                            Speedy Delivery 
 
   New technologies make prescription drugs easier to take. 
 
DRUG/COMPANY: Apomorphine*/Nastech 
USE: Sexual dysfunction 
DELIVERY METHOD: Nasal spray 
 
DRUG/COMPANY: Concerta/Alza 
USE: ADHD 
DELIVERY METHOD: Coated pill 
 
DRUG/COMPANY: PYY*/Nastech 
USE: Obesity 
DELIVERY METHOD: Nasal spray 
 
DRUG/COMPANY: Risperdal Consta/J&J and Alkermes 
USE: Schizophrenia 
DELIVERY METHOD: Injection every two weeks 
 
DRUG/COMPANY: Vivitrex*/Alkermes 
USE: Alcoholism 
DELIVERY METHOD: Monthly injection 
 
   * Not yet approved by FDA 
 
   Sources: the companies 
   

Document J000000020040315e03f0002f


More Like This

 Article 359 *******************    



Science & Technology: Physics

``Putting The Weirdness To Work''; Physicists say quantum materials will be the basis for amazing devices, but when? 

By John Carey in Gaithersburg, Md. 
1,831 words 
15 March 2004
BusinessWeek
103
Number 3874
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

The world of the quantum stretches the limits of human imagination. Who could ever believe, for instance, that atoms -- the building blocks of our seemingly solid landscape -- are able to exist in different places at one time? That they can be ``entangled'' together such that an action on one atom or particle will affect another across considerable distances? Or that they are irrevocably altered simply by the act of being observed? 

Yet that is what quantum laws tell us. Einstein himself was famously troubled by the implication that reality was actually just a collection of probabilities, where God not only played dice with the universe but also hid the dice. ``To common sense, quantum mechanics is nonsensical,'' says Nobel prize-winning physicist William D. Phillips of the National Institute of Standards & Technology (NIST). 

Nevertheless, developing quantum theory was ``the crowning intellectual achievement of the last century,'' says California Institute of Technology physicist John Preskill. It's the underlying principle for many of today's devices, from lasers to magnetic resonance imaging machines. And these may prove to be just the low-hanging fruit. Many scientists foresee revolutionary technologies based on the truly strange properties of the quantum world. 

For instance, there's a state of matter that scientists created less than a decade ago called the Bose-Einstein condensate, in which each of many millions of atoms act identically and are everywhere in the sample at once. Dozens of research groups around the world are experimenting with these condensates, whose properties portend a future we can barely glimpse. ``Physicists relish the weirdness, but now we're starting to ask if we can put the weirdness to work,'' says Preskill. 

Some of the theoretical possibilities boggle the mind. For example: the elusive but intensely desired quantum computer. The mathematical challenge of factoring a 400-digit number -- which would take 10 billion years on today's supercomputers -- might be cracked by a quantum computer in 30 seconds. While there are a number of approaches to building such a device, recent experiments with the Bose-Einstein condensates are opening up clever new paths. 

Quantum weirdness also enables communications to be sent in unbreakable code. New companies, such as New York City's MagiQ Technologies and id Quantique of Geneva, are already turning these ideas into commercial products. At the same time, the exploration of quantum domains may shed more light on abiding scientific mysteries, such as how some substances conduct electricity with zero resistance -- a phenomenon called superconductivity. That could lead to the transmission of electricity across great distances with no loss. And a forthcoming paper from IBM researchers will show how quantum phenomena can be exploited to see molecules more clearly. 

These uses may just scratch the surface of the possible. No one has ever been able to foresee transformations wrought by any revolutionary science. And the quantum world is no different. ``We have not yet begun to figure out what the applications are,'' says NIST physicist Carl J. Williams. ``But the risk is underestimating the impact.'' 

Quantum computers and most other applications are decades away, if indeed they can be built at all. Still, the enormous potential has led to programs at companies like IBM and Hewlett-Packard Co. The Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency is now beginning a major effort to construct a working quantum information processor. In all these efforts, ``the goal is the control of quantum matter,'' says Immanuel Bloch of the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz. ``It's a great challenge, but there are great rewards.'' 

For a glimpse of this endeavor, drop by the lab of William Phillips and his team in Gaithersburg, Md. Sprawling over a giant lab bench is a maze of precision mirrors and lasers, all converging on a small glass vacuum chamber where the quantum world is being probed. Phillips won his Nobel in 1997 for a technique known as laser cooling, in which beams are used to slow atoms down. That chills the atoms until they are a fraction of a degree above absolute zero. Now, using rubidium atoms, Phillips is making them even colder by letting the warmer ones ``evaporate.'' 

PEAKS AND TROUGHS. Inside the glass chamber, he is creating the fragile Bose-Einstein condensate. The clump of atoms can be huge -- big enough to be visible to the naked eye. At that scale, you would expect the stolid laws of Newtonian physics to rule. Instead, the atoms obey the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, which specifies that an electron or atom can't be pinned down to any one location. Even though the clump is a tenth of a millimeter across and contains a million atoms, ``every atom is everywhere -- that's what makes it so wonderful,'' says Williams. 

This strange state of matter was predicted by Einstein, building on work by Indian physicist Satyendra Nath Bose, back in 1924. It was first created by Phillips' NIST colleague, Eric A. Cornell, and Carl E. Wieman of the University of Colorado, in 1995 -- a Nobel prize-winning achievement. Now, an estimated 50 groups around the world are experimenting with the strange stuff. ``It can do some amazing things,'' says Phillips. 

One of the most intriguing -- and potentially useful -- maneuvers in Phillips' lab involves putting the atoms into neat little rows. The trick is using precisely tuned laser light. Imagine dropping pebbles into a pond, sending waves across the water. Then drop pebbles at the opposite shore, dispatching waves in the other direction. Where the two groups of waves meet, they create so-called standing waves -- an unchanging collection of peaks and troughs, like a row of sand dunes in the desert. 

Laser light is also a wave. So two intersecting beams similarly create peaks and valleys. Scientists call this an optical lattice. And when Phillips and other researchers shine intersecting laser beams though the Bose-Einstein clump of atoms, individual atoms almost magically go from being everywhere at once to nestling in the valleys. ``It's a great gift of nature,'' says Phillips. ``We've been lucky that things worked better than expected.'' 

To information scientists, such a neat arrangement of atoms looks startlingly like the basis for a computer. It can be arranged that each atom is in one of two energy levels, separated by a small quantum jump. Thus, each atom could represent a 0 or a 1, like the bits in a regular computer. 

But these are no ordinary bits. Because of quantum weirdness, an atom can be a 0 and a 1 at the same time. What's more, the different quantum bits, or ``qubits,'' can be entangled with each other, even if there is no actual connection. ``Because of the mystery of entanglement, the state of one atom will be dependent on the state of the other,'' explains Williams. ``It's a much stronger relationship than marriage.'' As a result, for some calculations, the power of a quantum machine grows exponentially with the number of qubits -- twice the bits gives you four times the power. A 300-qubit machine could store more combinations than there are atoms in the entire universe, says Williams. 

CLEVER ALTERNATIVES. Without doubt, there's a long, long path to building such a machine, and today's researchers have only begun the journey. Phillips and his team are now working on the next small step. They're trying to figure out how to get information to and from the individual qubits, by flipping the atoms from one state to the other with laser beams. 

Meanwhile, other labs are pursuing clever alternatives. At the University of Mainz, Bloch is also putting Bose-Einstein condensate atoms into the valleys of an optical lattice. His special twist is creating two simultaneous lattices with two different ``colors'' of laser beams. He also puts his atoms in two states at the same time. Then he can move one of the landscapes so that the atom particles interact in new ways. ``We can entangle hundreds of thousands of atoms and measure the state of each particle,'' he says. ``It is a completely new way of thinking about a quantum computer.'' 

Another tack is to use ions trapped in a magnetic field as qubits, instead of atoms in the optical lattice. Out in NIST's Boulder (Colo.) labs, David J. Wineland has built working logic gates -- a building block of computers -- using such ions. And many other groups are experimenting with tiny bits of semiconductor material, dubbed quantum dots. 

The ultimate payoff, however, is expected to go far beyond computing. Since the very act of observing quantum information changes it, communications that are encrypted with quantum ``keys'' could be sent safely across a network. The reason: Any attempt by spies to intercept the key would immediately be obvious, so users could switch to a different one. 

As exciting as these applications are, researchers are also thrilled by the basic science. Earlier this year, NIST physicist Deborah S. Jin created a state of matter called a fermionic condensate that is even rarer than the closely related Bose-Einstein materials. She managed to put atoms that don't normally like being next to each other into the same low-energy state. Her work could lead to a better understanding of superconductivity, which depends on similar pairs of quantum particles. 

Scientists are often surprised by what they encounter. Not long ago, Phillips was experimenting with faint laser beams, which unexpectedly impeded the movements of atoms. ``We don't know if this is interesting new physics or some stupid mistake,'' he says. ``In learning about quantum computing, we're at the forefront of fundamen- tal physics.'' That's how science and technology sometimes advance -- one small quantum step at a time. 


 (available online)
Harnessing Quantum Weirdness

While many of today's technologies, such as lasers and MRI machines, work because of quantum mechanics, the truly strange quantum properties hint at a future we can barely imagine. Some of the first possibilities:

UNBREAKABLE CODES for completely secure communications.

COMPUTERS capable of solving problems that would take today's computers billions of years.

POWERFUL TOOLS for seeing individual molecules or peering  into the human body.

NEW INSIGHTS into fundamental physics, such as the science of superconductivity.
  

Photograph: Taking Quantum Steps: Advances in the lab offer a glimpse of how these odd properties can be used ARRAY OF ``QUBITS'': Laser light creates hills and valleys into which atoms can nestle, making potential building blocks for a quantum computer. NOT PINNED DOWN: In the Bose-Einstein condensate, simulated here, each of the million identical atoms is present everywhere at once SUPERCOOLED: The peaks show another new state of matter, a fermionic condensate (LEFT TO RIGHT) NIST; NIST/UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (2)| Photograph: MAGIC MATTER? Computer image of a Bose-Einstein condensate, now a lab creation PHOTOGRAPH BY NIST 


Document BW00000020040316e03f0001e


More Like This

 Article 360 *******************    



Special Report

PRODUCTIVITY: WHO WINS, WHO LOSES; The U.S. is reaping big -- but uneven -- gains from its highly efficient workforce 

By Michael J. Mandel 
1,951 words 
22 March 2004
BusinessWeek
44
Number 3875
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

In The Sorcerer's Apprentice, a fledgling magician enchants a broom to carry his water for him. Unfortunately, he hasn't learned how to make the broom stop, and the flood nearly sweeps him out into the street. That, in a nutshell, is what the U.S. economy feels like these days. During the 1980s and 1990s, we wanted more productivity growth, we prayed for more productivity growth -- and now we're getting more than we ever expected. Since the start of the recession in March, 2001, output per hour has risen at an astounding 4.6% annual rate. That's far ahead of the 1.8% productivity growth of the previous recession and recovery of the early 1990s. 

These productivity gains have been carrying jobs away -- but unlike the magician's broom, they have also generated real benefits for Americans. By BusinessWeek's calculation, the rapid growth in productivity over the past three years has added an additional $220 billion to the nation's gross domestic product, compared with what GDP would have been if productivity growth had followed the slower pace of the previous business cycle. 

High productivity has enabled corporations to boost the bottom line while holding down price increases. Corporate operating profits are up $223 billion in the past year, according to the latest data from the Commerce Dept., while an astonishingly low inflation rate averaging 1.5% a year since 2001 has saved consumers hundreds of billions of dollars. 

In addition, the hike in productivity directly and indirectly has driven up asset prices. Rising profits, of course, have pushed the stock market nearly back to levels before the recession, benefiting investors, while low interest rates have sent home prices soaring, to the delight of many homeowners. All told, the latest data from the Federal Reserve show that household net wealth is at an all-time peak, surpassing the previous high in early 2000. 

What's lacking so far from the productivity boom -- and it's still very early -- are new and innovative industries that create jobs to replace those that are lost. In the second half of the 1990s, productivity growth accelerated as big companies became more efficient and manufacturing jobs were outsourced overseas. But overall employment rose sharply as the technology sector expanded, adding not just engineers and programmers, but also marketers, cable installers, Web site designers, and all sorts of high and low-end jobs. 

TEPID WAGE GROWTH. With info tech employment in a slump, there's no new industry now driving the job market. True, there are plenty of possible candidates for the Next Big Thing: Biotech, telecom, energy, nanotechnology, and even the commercial exploitation of space are all capable, in theory, of making a big difference in the job picture. However, it's not clear which of these, if any, will make the leap into the economic major leagues as autos did in the 1920s, commercial aviation did in the 1950s and 1960s, and info tech did in the 1990s. 

For now, the lack of a leading-edge industry means that the benefits of the productivity boom are distributed unevenly. In the 1990s, the tight labor market helped everyone, including the less skilled. Indeed, businesses were forced to hire and train many people who were formerly thought to be unemployable. 

By contrast, this recovery has left the unemployed and poor behind while mainly helping owners of assets such as stocks and homes, who also tend to have higher incomes. And although inflation is low, so is wage growth for most of the population. 

Indeed, the only group whose wage gains are significantly outpacing prices are managers and executives. Already the best-paid workers in the economy, their real wages have risen 2.6% over the past year, aggravating income inequality. 

The contours of today's recovery stand in stark contrast to the one that followed the recession of the early '90s. From the middle of 1990, when that recession began, to early 1993 -- a period roughly comparable to the past three years -- GDP rose at a mild 1.8% rate. But the gains from this relatively weak growth were well-balanced. Total wages and salaries, adjusted for inflation, rose by almost as much as real corporate earnings. 

This time, faster productivity growth means the economic pie is bigger, but all of the extra $220 billion in GDP -- and a bit more -- has gone to corporate profits. The economywide total of real wages and salaries is actually a bit lower now than when the recession began, mainly because of the loss of 2.4 million jobs. 

But that's not the whole story. Americans have been hit by a crosscurrent of forces stemming from faster productivity growth. On the plus side, surging productivity, rather than showing up as jobs or wages, has translated into a rise in wealth. For example, higher profits have clearly driven the rebound in the stock market. Over the past year, the market value of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up by about 40%. 

Less directly, robust productivity growth is also fueling the housing boom, which benefits the almost 70% of American households who own their own homes, an all-time high. The key is low mortgage rates, which have plunged to rock-bottom levels despite huge government budget deficits. Rates have stayed low in large part because foreign investors have kept pouring money into the U.S., which is an attractive investment opportunity because of high productivity and rising profits. Thus, in the fourth quarter of 2003, for example, foreigners purchased $284 billion worth of corporate bonds, $84 billion in stocks, and $178 billion in agency securities, all measured at an annual rate. The last are mostly mortgage-backed securities, which go directly to fund home purchases and refinancing. 

Buoyed by this overseas money, home prices -- adjusted for inflation and quality -- have risen by 17.1% over the past three years, and 6.5% in the past year alone. By comparison, coming out of the last recession, real home prices fell. The current sharp rise in housing prices has provided an almost endless source of spending money for Americans. Over the past year alone, home mortgages have gone up by $760 billion, including a sharp rise in home-equity loans. 

When American homeowners spend their housing wealth, they're also reaping the benefits of low prices. While some costs -- notably tuition and health care -- are higher, an astonishing variety of products, ranging from furniture to appliances to autos to clothing to telephone services, cost less than they did a year ago. In fact, consumer prices are about 4% lower than they would have been if inflation had proceeded along the same path as it did in the early 1990s. That's the equivalent of increasing the buying power of workers by almost $200 billion. 

HOMEOWNER ANXIETIES. But many have not fared well in the productivity-driven recovery. Unemployed workers have languished on the sidelines as hiring has stalled in many industries. Over 40% of the unemployed have been out of work 15 weeks or longer, compared with 23% in 2000. And despite the conventional wisdom that this is mainly a white-collar slump, the collapse in manufacturing jobs has hit the lower rungs of the labor ladder harder. Unemployment for what the Bureau of Labor Statistics calls ``production occupations'' -- including many factory jobs -- is 7.8%, compared with 2.7% for managerial and professional occupations. 

In addition, productivity growth without job or wage growth leads to other problems. The only way that many Americans can pay their mortgage and hold onto their major asset -- their home -- is to stay employed, creating anxiety about the job market even among those who are lucky enough to benefit from rising housing prices. And federal and state government finances are not designed for an economy in which wealth rises and wages stay flat, since the tax system is focused on taxing income, not wealth. 

There are two possible ways that the current productivity boom could play out. In the absence of innovative new industries, the worst fears of pessimists will turn out to be true: Job growth will stay sluggish, demand will eventually sag, and over the course of the next decade, incomes will be driven down under the continued pressure of competition from China, India, and other low-wage countries. 

The other, more optimistic alternative is that a new industry arises to take the baton from information technology as the leading sector of the economy. For example, biotech today is in the same situation as info tech was in the 1980s -- a relatively small industry in terms of jobs but with enormous potential. A few blockbuster drugs -- say, a real cure for colon cancer -- could mean a tremendous explosion of jobs in research, sales, and production. 

It's important to realize that the new ideas need not be created in the U.S. The World Wide Web was invented in Switzerland, and drug research has been done around the globe for years. Moreover, Europe and Asia have long taken advantage of ideas generated in the U.S., showing that innovations travel easily across national borders. 

In that sense, the growth of research and development operations in China and India -- regarded as potential competition by some -- could be good news for the U.S. With more smart minds, tough problems such as cheap solar power could be solved more quickly. What's important is for U.S. companies and workers to be flexible enough, with sufficient access to capital, to quickly take advantage of new technologies and opportunities when they arise. 

Still, for all the uncertainty about the future, an economy driven by productivity growth is far superior to the alternative. Even without job growth, Americans are collecting the benefits of higher productivity through rising wealth and lower prices. Consumers are still spending -- and they're still buying homes. And if jobs and wages pick up soon, today's anxiety will feel like a dim memory. 


 (available online)
Winners and Losers

WINNERS

CORPORATIONS
OPERATING PROFITS*: +24.9%

CONSUMERS
CONSUMPTION PRICE INDEX*: +1.4%

MANAGERS/EXECUTIVES
REAL WAGES*: +2.6%

HOMEOWNERS
REAL HOUSING PRICES*: +6.5%

INVESTORS
S&P 500*: +39.2%

LOSERS

UNEMPLOYED WORKERS
JOB GROWTH*: +0.1%

PROFESSIONALS/TECH WORKERS
REAL WAGES*: +0.6%

BLUE COLLAR WORKERS
MANUFACTURING JOBS*: -3.1%

POOR HOUSEHOLDS
BENEFIT LITTLE FROM RISING HOME AND STOCK PRICES

* Change over a year ago
Data: Federal Reserve, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Commerce Dept



  


 (available online)
The Next Big Thing

Historically, job growth has been ignited by innovative industries. Here are some areas that could drive a new job boom:

TELECOM
Broadband and wireless technologies could help create new businesses and expand employment in such fields as animation, video, and other forms of rich media.

BIOTECH
Many biotech companies could grow into full-blown pharmaceutical companies as their technologies mature. That would create new jobs in research and sales.

NANOTECH
Advances in building materials and devices on the atomic level could create a new wave of startups, employing experts in computer science, basic materials, and applied physics.

ENERGY
Economically viable solar power and hydrogen fuel cells could catalyze a new energy infrastructure, creating growth in electric power, autos, and manufacturing.

SPACE
The long-awaited commercialization of space could  open up new frontiers and jobs. Entrepreneurs are eager to enter the space tourism business and even mine asteroids.
  

Photograph: CHASING PROFITS: Higher earnings are driving a rebound in stocks PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN 


Document BW00000020040318e03m00003


More Like This

 Article 361 *******************    



Editorials

Jobs: Innovation Is the Answer, And Washington Must Help 

783 words 
22 March 2004
BusinessWeek
128
Number 3875
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

A job panic is sweeping America, whipped up in no small part by demagoguing politicians and media pundits. With the U.S. economy growing strongly, people are anxiously asking: Where are the jobs? It is a serious question, reflecting genuine pain and fear. But blaming outsourcing for all of America's job ills is a terrible mistake. We asked for an open global economy because it's the best way to generate the most prosperity. Now that we have globalization, we should play by the rules. 

The truth is that India and China may well become strong competitors to the U.S. Each has a culture favoring education and could move beyond being mere outposts for outsourcing to challenging America for supremacy in the knowledge economy. The U.S. has no choice but to emphasize what it does best in this coming rivalry -- and its most important strength is innovation. Commercializing innovation is America's core competence. We do it better than anyone else. But faced with other potential innovators on the global scene, we have to start doing it even better. 

So it's time to do away with ideology and pretense. While it may be folly to pick specific winners and losers, the federal government has a key role to play in fostering basic research and development. It began to play that role in 1790 when George Washington signed a bill establishing the U.S. patent office (the first patent, to Samuel Hopkins, was for a process to make potash for fertilizer). Government action, especially military spending, has promoted critical technologies. DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, financed the early Internet. The military has also funded many breakthroughs in telecommunications and materials. It's time for Washington to focus on innovation, not protectionism, as the way to ensure jobs and prosperity in America. 

Venture capitalists are eyeing five possible areas for break-away innovation. Here's what the government can do: 

ENERGY. Clearly, the nation needs to become more energy-independent. The Bush Administration is proposing significant new spending on hydrogen and solar energy. That's good, but much more has to be done to conserve energy by raising fuel efficiency in cars, sport-utility vehicles, and trucks. The White House is offering a $2 billion tax credit for consumers over 10 years when they buy hybrid cars. It should greatly increase that amount to match the $10 billion in subsidies it wants to boost oil, gas, and coal production. The result: more jobs as well as a cleaner environment. 

BROADBAND. Washington must craft a clear broadband policy that ties every household in America to a super-fast connection. This is critical. Deregulation, tax credits -- whatever it takes -- must be passed as quickly as possible. A whole new world of rich media -- interactive advertising, education, games, and services -- awaits this action. 

BIOTECH. The White House gets full credit for pouring tens of billions into the National Institutes of Health to help develop the biological sciences. But it needs to pressure the Food & Drug Administration to speed up the development of new drugs. And it must move away from its opposition to stem-cell research. Without it, the U.S. will lose its supremacy. 

NANOTECHNOLOGY. The Administration is funding six new nanotechnology centers. But Washington needs to pump more money into traditional physics to raise the odds of generating breakthrough science. China and Japan are doing important nanotechnology research. Washington must hurry to hike its investment in this area. 

HEALTH CARE. Surging health-care costs may be raising the price of innovation in America and pricing workers out of jobs. In Europe, employers are reluctant to hire because each new worker comes with huge retirement and benefits costs. Part of the current reluctance of American chief executives to hire may be that the price of new workers is too high, thanks to 10% annual hikes in health-care costs. Promoting advances in information technology, pharmaceuticals, and bioengineering can cut the health-care bill. Reducing payroll taxes and giving companies a larger credit for providing health care to workers would also slash the cost of hiring. 

Washington must also find a way to make it easier for talented foreign researchers and students to get into U.S. universities. America should make every effort to stop potential terrorists, but it is also keeping out many of the world's best and brightest. This is doing serious harm to innovation. 

The U.S. has had periods of virtually no job growth in the past. It has punched through them with pragmatic policies that promoted growth and innovation. That's what we need today. 

Document BW00000020040318e03m0000p


More Like This

 Article 362 *******************    



Equity Firms Seek Stock Listings 

By Allison Bisbey Colter Dow Jones Newswires 
1,125 words 
31 March 2004
The Wall Street Journal
NPC
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Some private-equity firms are taking advantage of the improving fund-raising environment to lock in extremely long-term financing. 

While venture-capital and buyout funds have always targeted investors with long-term horizons, these VCs want even more flexibility than is allowed by the typical eight- to 10-year lockup. They are hoping the industry's renewed appeal will allow them to raise money through closed-end investment companies, providing them with nearly permanent working capital. 

Unlike private-investment partnerships, whose shares can only be redeemed by the fund manager after a set number of years, closed-end funds are listed on a stock exchange, where investors can buy and sell their shares daily. This frees a fund manager from the need to liquidate portfolio investments at any particular time to meet redemptions, which can lower returns. 

Harris & Harris Group, a New York firm that invests in nanotechnology, microsystems and microelectromechanical systems, took this route over a decade ago when it converted from a private-investment partnership to a closed-end investment company, listing its shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol TINY. 

The firm is taking advantage of the recent run-up in its stock to raise more money. In February, it filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a follow-on offering of three million shares. That comes on the heels of 2.3 million shares the company issued in December. 

"What we are is a publicly traded venture-capital firm," said Chairman Charles E. Harris. 

He said having a longer-term investment horizon allows the firm to be a more patient investor. "Since we do early stage investing, that seemed appropriate," Mr. Harris said. 

With no particular deadline for winding down the fund, Harris & Harris can give its portfolio companies breathing room to grow and mature. "Even if you can profit when [a company goes] public, it may have a lot of growth ahead," he said. "Or you can give it more time before it goes public." 

He cites Nanophase Technologies as an example: Harris & Harris originally backed the Romeoville, Ill., firm as a start-up in 1994 and waited until 2001, four years after the initial public offering, to unload its stake. 

Operating a closed-end fund brings an added regulatory burden because registered investment companies must file regular reports on their performance and portfolio holdings with the SEC. 

By comparison, venture funds structured as private partnerships have virtually no reporting requirements. 

But this structure also allows Harris & Harris to market its shares more widely. Closed-end funds can be sold through public offerings, making them available to virtually anyone, whereas private partnerships can only accept a limited number of investors with a net worth of $1 million or more. 

"Just from an idealistic point of view, I've always felt, why shouldn't the general public have a chance to invest?" Mr. Harris said. 

Traditional VCs are getting in on the act, too. Apollo Management LP, the $10 billion firm co-founded by Leon Black, has filed with the SEC for a proposed closed-end offering, Apollo Investment Corp., that would invest in mostly private middle-market companies through a combination of debt and equity. 

In its prospectus, Apollo Investment describes this market as "increasingly underserved" by traditional financing sources such as regional banks and commercial lenders, which are now focusing on bigger companies with better credit ratings. 

Apollo Investment will be the only publicly traded investment vehicle managed by an affiliate of Apollo Management. Its strategy is a departure from the firm's six private funds, which primarily take large equity stakes in private companies. 

The prospectus for the latest offering touts the benefits of managing money in a closed-end vehicle: "Unlike private-equity and venture-capital funds, we will not be subject to standard periodic capital-return requirements, which typically stipulate that funds can only be invested once and must be returned to investors after an agreed-upon period. This often forces firms to seek return on investment through mergers, or initial public offerings more quickly than they otherwise would, potentially resulting in both a lower return and an adverse impact on portfolio companies." 

Brantley Capital Management, a Cleveland venture firm with both public and private funds, filed plans with the SEC in December for a new closed-end fund, Brantley Mezzanine Capital Corp., that will provide medium-term debt and equity financing for middle-market companies. 

Like Apollo, Brantley said in its prospectus that it believes middle-market companies -- which it defines as those with annual revenues of between $5 million and $25 million -- are underserved because of recent consolidation in the banking industry and tighter lending standards. 

The recent filings for closed-end private-equity funds come amid burst of fund-raising activity fueled by low interest rates and a recovering stock market. 

Traditional venture-capital firms pulled in $5.16 billion in the fourth quarter of 2003, according to a survey by the National Venture Capital Association and Thomson Venture Economics. That is a 150% increase from the $2.07 billion raised in the fourth quarter of 2002 and an even more dramatic increase from the $1.94 billion of the third quarter of last year. 

Not all publicly traded venture firms have been successful, however. One of the oldest, Equus II, a Houston partnership that invested in mezzanine securities such as subordinated debt of preferred stock, was wound down at the end of last year after years of trading at a discount to its net asset value. 

In that way, closed-end venture funds are no different from their counterparts that invest in other illiquid securities, such as emerging-market stocks or municipal bonds. 

When the asset class in question is out of favor, there are more people lining up to sell their shares than there are interested buyers. "Any fund that trades on an exchange presumably will suffer from similar issues," said Kenneth Gerstein, a partner with New York law firm Schulte Roth & Zabel who advises on closed-end offerings. 

In fact, the last time VCs tried to raise money through closed-end funds en masse was during the peak of the previous bull market for tech stocks in late 1999 and early 2000. Many of these offerings subsequently stumbled when the tech bubble burst. 

Still, VCS may have nothing to lose by taking advantage of the current fund-raising window to secure more permanent financing. 

"Although we seem to be climbing out of bust cycle, many firms that don't have a good record of investments will have trouble raising new money this time around," Mr. Harris said. 

Document J000000020040331e03v00001


More Like This

 Article 363 *******************    



SCIENCE JOURNAL

Researchers Exploring `What Is Life?' Seek To Create a Living Cell 

By Sharon Begley 
893 words 
2 April 2004
The Wall Street Journal
B1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

AS ANY GEEK who ever soldered together a circuit board from off-the-shelf parts can testify, if you truly want to understand how something works, you need to build it yourself. 

That approach doesn't raise any eyebrows when applied to gizmos and gadgets, but now a loosely organized band of scientists is extending it in an audacious way. In hopes of answering the age-old question "what is life?" they are trying to assemble -- from off-the-shelf, nonliving molecules -- a living cell. 

"Creating a cell from scratch is probably at least 10 years away, but it is going to happen," says Mark Bedau of Reed College, Portland, Ore. "We're in for some very interesting, very profound new ways of thinking about what life is, and about where you draw the boundary between life and nonlife." 

One of the deepest mysteries in biology is how molecules that are no more alive than the tip of a pencil can form a reproducing, metabolizing, evolving organism. If you plop a droplet of any of the molecules that make up living cells (fats, amino acids, water, DNA, other organic molecules) onto a glass slide, it just sits there. No one would mistake it for a living thing. Yet when the right ingredients assemble in the right proportions, the result comes alive, as it did on Earth some 3.8 billion years ago. 

The transformation is so profound that most scientists until the 19th century believed in the theory called vitalism. This holds that living things possess a mysterious "vital spark" that endows them with life, and that life cannot be explained by mere chemistry and physics. But today, harnessing no more than thermodynamics, electromagnetism and chemistry, scientists are taking steps toward creating a living cell. 

THE FIRST STEP is to separate the would-be cell from the outside world, and this turns out to be startlingly simple. Several researchers have created little self-replicating vesicles, minuscule bubbles much like the membranes around living cells. In a special mixture of oil and water, Luigi Luisi of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich, has found, membranes form spontaneously, grow by incorporating small molecules from the outside world, and reproduce by pinching themselves in two, like amoebas. 

Dr. Luisi's vesicles fulfill two of the main requirements for life, growing and reproducing. In addition, says David Deamer of the University of California, Santa Cruz, a living cell must transform raw materials and energy into more of itself (metabolize), and also evolve. Although no one has gotten a single vesicle to carry out all of these reactions, Prof. Deamer and his colleague Pierre-Alain Monnard are coming close. 

"As they form, the vesicles capture a polymerase enzyme that strings together small molecular building blocks into more complicated molecules," says Prof. Deamer. "The vesicles take in molecules from the outside, and the polymerase uses them as nutrients and as an energy source to synthesize RNA," a cousin of DNA. 

Other groups of scientists have gotten simple amino acids to link together into proteins, like beads linking into a biological necklace. The reaction occurs on the surface of the vesicle, which somehow jump-starts the assembly. The vesicles created in the lab are not just dumb containers; they support biological reactions. 

Last fall, molecular biologist Jack Szostak of Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, and colleagues reported that common clay particles have an unsuspected talent. They can speed up the conversion of little clusters of molecules into vesicles, making the formation of a cell membrane even easier. Inside the vesicle, the clay particles grab hold of short bits of RNA and assemble them into a long strand. Voila: a little sphere containing genetic material able to grow and copy itself. 

THE MISSING ingredient in this cell wannabe is metabolism, but Steen Rasmussen of Los Alamos National Lab thinks he can provide it. He and Liaohai Chen of Argonne National Lab have designed a microscopic container with metabolic molecules and genes whose electrical properties drive metabolic reactions. The scientists have demonstrated experimentally that this micrometabolism can produce exactly the molecules the container is made of (so the system would be able to grow). 

"All the pieces are there -- self-assembling container, genes and metabolism that captures energy from the outside world," says Dr. Rasmussen. "The question is, how do we get it to reproduce? If we do, then most people would say it is alive." 

If researchers manage to create living cells from scratch, their mastery of the machinery of life could blur the line between alive and not-alive. Combining the traits of artificial cells with nanotechnology, Dr. Rasmussen and colleagues wrote in a recent issue of Science, could produce machines that "would literally form the basis of a living technology possessing powerful capabilities and raising important social and ethical" questions. Adds Prof. Bedau, "It will be crossing a threshold, enabling technologies we can't even imagine now." 

Scientists are close enough to creating life in the lab that it is time to start a public debate about what that would mean -- for traditional views of the sanctity of life as well as for whether the creators will be able to control their creations. 

--- 

You can e-mail me at sciencejournal@wsj.com. 

Document J000000020040402e04200008


More Like This

 Article 364 *******************    


50 Years of The FORTUNE 500/The Stories/General Electric/No. 5

Another Boss Another Revolution Jeff Immelt is following a time- honored GE tradition: abandoning the most treasured ideas of his predecessor. 

Jerry Useem 
3,256 words 
5 April 2004
Fortune
112
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

On a Sunday evening in 1879, Thomas Edison and his assistants powered up an electric bulb and took turns watching it. Over the past 18 months their quest for a workable filament had generated nothing but 1,200 failures and $40,000 in expenses. But this time the carbonized sewing thread inside was still glowing more than 13 hours later 

The invention that came to symbolize inventive genius itself spawned a company that would, in turn, become America's flagship corporation. During its 125-year existence, the General Electric Co. has glowed as steadily as Edison's lamp--even while continually overturning its own legacy. The only company remaining from the Dow Jones index of 1896, GE has had fewer leaders since then--eight-- than the Vatican has had Popes. Each man stepped into the shoes of a predecessor who, in most cases, was considered the leading industrialist of his day. Each abandoned the approach of his predecessor. And each chose a successor who would change the company's course yet again--a remarkable record of continuity achieved through periodic revolution. "What GE seems to have a genius for," says Jim Collins, a business researcher and author of Good to Great, "is picking the right person for the right time for more than 100 years." 

The eighth man in this distinguished lineage was standing, one blustery afternoon in February, on the 70th-story roof of the GE Building at New York City's Rockefeller Center. FORTUNE had coaxed him there during an afternoon interview and photo shoot. The massive slab underneath Jeff Immelt was, proportionally speaking, roughly as big as the 300,000-person, $134 billion organization he stands atop. "God, this is something," he said, standing above the giant "GE" letters that overlook Manhattan. He had never been there before 

He had never been a CEO before, either, until that day in 2001 when he stepped into Jack Welch's shoes. But he had a pretty good idea of what to expect. That's because the first few years of any new GE leader follow a familiar pattern. First come the public comparisons with the great man who came before--the "legend," the "miracle man of American business," as Reginald Jones (CEO from 1972 to 1981) and Owen Young (1922 to 1940) were respectively hailed by the press. Then comes the period of crisis: war, recession, a troubled stock. Eventually come the glowing headlines: MAN OF THE YEAR: OWEN D. YOUNG (Time, 1929); GE DOES IT (FORTUNE, 1942); WELCH POWERING FIRM INTO GLOBAL COMPETITOR (Washington Post, 1984) 

The first three years of the Immelt era have been no exception. After incessant comparisons with Welch followed by the period of crisis--in his case, the end of GE's ten-year streak of double- digit earnings growth in 2002--Immelt is now taking his place among these Rushmorean figures and, in the process, quietly putting on a clinic on how to lead a major corporation 

He doesn't command the spotlight the way Jack Welch did, and he probably never will. Immelt, 48, is less a commander than a commanding presence--one of those natural leaders around whom a group tends to spontaneously organize. And his blueprint for GE is firmly in the tradition of breaking tradition. Jack Welch had plunged headlong into financial services. Immelt is getting out of them. Welch had courted Wall Street by setting--and hitting-- pinpoint earnings targets. Immelt has given the Street's short-term demands a back seat to long-term strategy. Welch rapidly rotated managers through different divisions to develop generalists. Immelt wants to keep them in place longer to develop specialists. And where Welch tended to grow GE though acquisition, Immelt wants to grow the company the way it used to: through innovation 

What might look like a repudiation of Welch's legacy, though, is Welch's legacy. It was Welch who picked Jeff Immelt. And it was Welch who allegedly gave him the same instructions that his own predecessor, Reginald Jones, had given him 20 years earlier: Blow it up 

Immelt has gone about the task in customary GE fashion: thoughtfully, meticulously, and then--kaboom!--suddenly. In a single week this past fall he spent $14 billion for Vivendi Universal and $10 billion for British medical-imager Amersham--GE's two biggest deals ever--because he thinks those businesses will grow faster than the overall economy. A month later he announced plans to kick loose various slow-growing insurance businesses through a new company, Genworth, to be sold to the public this year. In his spare time, he has picked up two cable channels (Telemundo and Bravo), three water treatment companies, three security technology firms, and Enron's wind-power business. 

The buying spree might look like an extension of the Welch era, when roughly 40% of GE's earnings growth came through acquisitions. But there's a difference here. Many of Immelt's deals slowed GE's earnings growth--not the kind that Welch favored--meaning that Immelt isn't buying growth so much as buying the ability to grow. And that, in turn, suggests that the company has a truly long-term thinker on its hands. 

Immelt is far too grounded to call himself a theorist (I'm just a "simple businessman," the former applied-math major has said, who's "not that deep.") But more than any other company, GE has always required a theory of how it should grow. It was founded upon the theory of a "benign circle," in which the company created demand for its electrical products by starting rail lines, generating stations, power plants, and the like. Its growing image as a faceless monopolist prompted Owen Young to introduce appliances that would give GE a friendly presence in the home. "To be known," his theory went, "is quite as important a part of management as knowing." And in 1981 much of Jack Welch's first speech to analysts was given over to the theories of Prussian General Carl von Clausewitz. "This company isn't a central strategy," he said, "but a central idea": If a company wasn't No. 1 or No. 2 in a business, it shouldn't be there at all 

If Jeff Immelt's central idea had to be reduced to a sound bite, it would be this: "We have to make our own growth." There's a lot packed into that simple statement, so here's a rough translation: 

The economy appears to be entering a period of slower growth. Yes, things may pick up some, but those fat years in the '90s? They're long gone, soldier. So look around: This is your new reality. You can curse the Fates. Or you can find new ways-- realistic ways--to grow. You can't buy growth anymore, for the simple reason that, well, there's not a lot of growth out there to buy. So you've got to make it yourself. Where, you may ask, could one possibly grow something out of nothing? Why, in the House of Magic! 

Though the name is fanciful, the House of Magic is, in fact, a real place. It is a GE research lab just outside of Schenectady, N.Y. And it used to be famous 

Founded in 1900, the House of Magic was the brainchild of one Charles Proteus Steinmetz, a gnarled mathematical genius who ignited the popular imagination with his man-made lightning storms. Given free rein to pursue his scientific interests and to host visitors with names like Einstein and Kelvin, Steinmetz became a magnet for other creative wizards. There, William Coolidge would invent the X- ray tube and tungsten light. Irving Langmuir would earn a Nobel Prize in chemistry. Ernst Alexanderson would invent the high- frequency alternator that enabled the first radio broadcasts-- leading GE to form the Radio Corp. of America and the National Broadcasting Corp. There was no one place on the balance sheet where the House of Magic's contributions could be seen. Then-chairman Owen Young said in 1930: "It is the balance sheet itself." 

Where did the House of Magic go? In a literal sense, nowhere. But subsequent company leaders let it wither. In 1955--the first year of the FORTUNE 500--this magazine described an "overhaul of General Electric" that "departed radically from GE management tradition." It was scientific management, not basic science, that interested Ralph Cordiner, the company's president then. His "decentralization theory" spawned a bureaucracy that was more fascinated with its internal workings than with the mysteries of discovery. Cordiner set out to prove his notion that the professional, "wonderfully mobile" manager could oversee anything. So when GE purchased a French computer maker to challenge IBM in the late 1960s, it picked a man to run the place who (1) knew nothing about computers and (2) couldn't speak French. The debacle wound up costing the company $200 million. GE's most conspicuous success, meanwhile, was a division that resisted the rotation of its people: aircraft engines, where Joseph Immelt worked for 38 years 

Now his son Jeff, the Harvard Business School graduate, is out to banish Cordiner's ghost for good. "I absolutely loathe the notion of professional management," he told an MIT audience in September. Which is not an endorsement of unprofessional management but a statement that, for instance, the best jet engines are built by jet- engine people, not by appliance people. Rotate managers too fast, moreover, and they won't experience the fallout from their mistakes- -nor will they invest in innovations that don't have an immediate payoff. "If I were to give you a chapter of my business book, it would be called, 'Two Million Dollars From Greatness,'" Immelt said at MIT. "I can't tell you how many GE leaders give me the excuse that 'I could fund new innovations, but I can't afford it. I can't fit it into my budget.' These are from leaders that have a billion- dollar base-cost budget. Investors expect companies to take risk." 

What kinds of risk? Things that bypass distributors, like GE's new loan offers to consumers, are good. Things that promise a "services stream," like turbines that require spare parts, are better. Things you can't make in China, like extremely complicated molecular imaging stuff, are best of all. "Ten years out," Immelt declared in 2003, "90% of our company's earnings will have no competition from China. Eighty percent of our businesses will be selling to China." 

Yet some risks are too big--or too "out there"--for a single division to undertake. That's where the House of Magic comes in. Immelt has revamped it, giving it a fresh coat of paint and a vastly expanded budget. The Global Research Center (as it is now known) is plunging into nanotechnology, photovoltaics, hydrogen power, advanced propulsion, and other areas that could affect multiple GE businesses. The center that once turned scientists into industrialists, Immelt hopes, can do the reverse too. He has been rotating his managers through the place, where they hang out in a new Adirondack-style lodge and soak up the latest technologies. He has also built similar outposts in Shanghai, Munich, and Bangalore, India. 

Revitalizing the research center isn't the only way Immelt is letting engineers know how important they are. Three years ago, he says, just seven of GE's 175 top officers were engineering types. Now roughly 20 of them are. Immelt is also bulking up on marketing people in the belief that the best ones can sell GE products right through an economic slump. Case in point: In the midst of an airline recession that Boeing has blamed for its poor performance, GE's aircraft-engine unit has stayed aloft through aggressive sales techniques 

Immelt has given much thought to economic cycles. GE traditionally classified its businesses as either "long cycle," like engines, or "short cycle," like plastics and appliances. That bothered him because it suggested that GE is at the mercy of the economy when, to his thinking, the economy should be at the mercy of GE. So in January, Immelt reclassified GE's businesses, dividing them into 11 groups within two new categories. "Growth businesses" like transportation, health care, and energy are where he'll lay the big bets. "Cash generators" like lighting, appliances, and insurance will provide the chips to double down his growth bets. Some of these bets may not pay off for ten or even 20 years, Immelt notes. But investors are likely to see results sooner than that. Had Immelt simply kept the businesses he inherited, Bernstein Research estimates, GE would be set to grow its bottom line 9% in 2005. As it is, the reshuffled deck is projected to grow 14% 

Jeff Immelt goes nuts if you dare call his company a "conglomerate." A conglomerate generates returns by trading in and out of businesses; it's basically a giant mutual fund. By contrast, GE generates returns by undertaking projects that only it has the wherewithal to undertake: the biggest, the most difficult, the longest term. Scale is one of GE's traditional strengths. This company was born huge--a "supercompany" with 10,000 employees, a few thousand patents, and J.P. Morgan on its board. Cordiner defined size as a liability. Not Immelt. "It's really a story about faith," Immelt told the audience at MIT. "A big company with conviction, with speed, can change the world in a way that others can't." 

Faith? Conviction? Do people still use those words? In the increasingly mercenary culture of CEOs, they sound downright antique. But the more you watch Jeff Immelt (and his unselfconscious avowals of "love for the company"), the more you realize that this new breed of executive is, in fact, a throwback. He's a throwback to GE's first leader, the low-profile Charles Coffin, who would write out customer proposals in longhand. He's a throwback to GE's second leader, Owen Young, who espoused the notion that managers were trustees of something they didn't own. He's a throwback to GE's third leader, Charlie Wilson, who in the '40s addressed rumors of Westinghouse's plan to catch up with GE. "They should live so long," he told his executives at Association Island, a company getaway on the St. Lawrence River. "Now, let's all rise and sing 'Onward, Christian Soldiers.' " 

Like those men, Immelt enjoys one final, incalculable advantage: It's understood that unless something goes horribly wrong, he's got the job for 20 years. If GE's stock drops by a third, as it did during his first year on the job, he doesn't have to panic. He's still at the beginning of this thing. So instead of announcing some half-baked turnaround scheme, he can actually do the things leaders are supposed to do. Develop an intelligent plan. Shore up the finances. Inspire the troops. Invest in the customers. Refrain from making dumb promises. Explore technologies whose payoffs will come far down the road. "I run a company that's 125 years old," says Immelt. "There's going to be someone after me, just as there was someone before me." 

In some ways, it is the ultimate benign circle. Continuity breeds confidence. Confidence breeds conviction. And conviction breeds something that, had we not grown so cynical, would look suspiciously like ... well, courage 

FEEDBACK juseem@fortunemail.com 

FORTUNE.COM SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Read more about GE online, including whether the stock is worth betting on, and check out the company's complete FORTUNE 500 and America's Most Admired Companies stats 

Don't Call It a Conglomerate 

The reorganized GE has four slow-growth "cash generators" that feed seven "growth businesses." 2004 revenues (proj.) 

GROWTH BUSINESSES in billions Commercial finance$23.0 Its scale gives it an edge in real estate, aircraft leasing, and equipment financing 

Energy $18.0 

Wind, hydropower, and energy services are helping offset slow turbine sales to power plants. 

Consumer finance $15.0 

Long a third-party provider of credit cards, it's now offering personal loans directly to consumers 

Transportation $15.0 

Sales of its CF34 engines for regional jets have kept it flying through the downturn. 

Health care $11.5* 

Amersham CEO Bill Castell will run the unit after GE acquires his medical-imaging company 

NBC-Universal $ 8.3** 

Vivendi's movie studio plus Bravo's Queer Eye for the Straight Guy equals a full-service media giant. 

Infrastructure $ 3.5 

Water treatment, security, and sensor systems sound boring--but their growth prospects aren't 

CASH GENERATORS 

Insurance $22.6 Divestitures and a pending IPO are shrinking GE's insurance assets by about 65% 

Consumer and industrial products $13.0 

Light bulbs, which once produced 40% of GE's sales, live alongside hot pots and trash compactors 

Advanced materials$7.8 

Elastomers! Resins! Fused quartz! This business has them all--even if plastics are no longer the future 

Equipment services$4.4 

It continues to manage truck fleets and lease boxcars while looking to sell off money-losing businesses 

SOURCE: GENERAL ELECTRIC 

*Does not include Amersham revenues. **Does not include Vivendi Universal revenues 

"I absolutely loathe the notion of professional management," Immelt said last fall 

BLOW IT UP 

Before Immelt took over, GE had had only seven leaders (not including Thomas Edison, who founded the firm that merged with another to become GE) 

Charles Coffin 1892-1922 Drove the "benign circle" by which GE established utilities, rail lines, and distributors to purchase its electrical gear 

Owen Young 1922-40 Sought to make GE a household name through home appliances, RCA, and his own involvement in national affairs 

Charles Wilson 1940-50 Refitted GE's factories for war while continuing to advertise goods they couldn't, for the moment, deliver 

Ralph Cordiner 1950-63 Decentralized the company, breaking it into units small enough for "one man to get his arms around." 

Fred Borch 1963-72 Bet heavily on atomic energy, computers, and aircraft engines, producing two losers but one big winner 

Reginald Jones 1972-81 Put his faith in numbers, shoring up General Electric's finances while seeking to shape U.S. policy on inflation 

Jack Welch 1981-2001 Fixed, closed, or sold units that weren't No. 1 or No. 2 in their industry; made stock price--not sales--the yardstick 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE ASSELIN BACK TO THE FUTURE CEO Jeff Immelt (in the GE Building) is reviving the spirit of Thomas Edison (inset, in 1929). B/W PHOTO: CULVER PICTURES [See caption above] B/W PHOTO: SCHENECTADY MUSEUM; HALL OF ELECTRICAL HISTORY FOUNDATION--CORBIS WHO MADE GE RUN Engineers and researchers (like these in 1950) were the stars of the old General Electric. Under Immelt, they're on the rise again. COLOR PHOTO: BERND AUERS The GE90 aircraft engine is as big as they come. COLOR PHOTO: PAXTON Enormous magnets are the guts of GE's MRI machines. COLOR PHOTO: MICHAEL O'NEILL Jay Leno's show brings in 15% of the network's profits. SIX B/W PHOTOS COLOR PHOTO B/W PHOTO: SCHENECTADY MUSEUM; HALL OF ELECTRICAL HISTORY FOUNDATION--CORBIS SLEIGHT OF HAND Steinmetz, a math genius, created GE's first House of Magic. 


Document FORTU00020040324e0450000d


More Like This

 Article 365 *******************    


50 Years of The FORTUNE 500/The Stories/The Future

Future Shock If you thought the past 50 years were a time of radical change, you ain't seen nothin'. Futurist PETER SCHWARTZ fast- forwards to 2054 and gives us a preview of the top ten companies of the 100th FORTUNE 500. 

Peter Schwartz 
2,828 words 
5 April 2004
Fortune
260
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

Who could have imagined in the mid-1950s all the wonders that have since come to pass? That scientists would decode the human genome, or clone a sheep? Or that we'd be carrying tiny phones that not only don't need wires but also can take photographs? Or that we'd be shopping from home in our underpants at 3 A.M. for little plastic discs with entire movies on them? As we celebrate a half- century of the FORTUNE 500, we decided to take a crack at how the next five decades will turn out. Or rather, we turned to a man who specializes in prognostication: Peter Schwartz. The former head of scenario planning for the Royal Dutch/Shell Group and a script advisor on movies like Minority Report and Deep Impact, Schwartz and his colleagues at Global Business Network consult with clients ranging from FORTUNE 500 companies to the CIA on how the future might look. Here are his extremely educated guesses 

1. AMAZONBAY On the 100th FORTUNE 500, a retail company still tops the list. But what it means to be a retailer has completely changed. Companies like AmazonBay--the first 500 company to break $10 trillion in revenues--don't just sell things. No, these new retail powers meticulously create a highly personalized shopping experience for the consumer. 

In the vastly wealthier and almost universally connected world of 2054, shopping is mostly virtual. (The strategy of luring shoppers into stores solely with low prices is passe.) People wirelessly make instant purchases of almost any scale--ranging from micropayments for information (like an address) to financing for a house. Need a new shirt and some groceries? Interface a tiny electronic device called an "information envelope" with a monitor in your home or office, and simply tell your digital shopper (DS) what you want. Like a cross between a butler and a personal accountant, your DS knows everything about you--your taste in clothes, your spending habits, even your financial prospects. It gives you choice when you want it and makes decisions when you don't. People can access their DS anytime, anywhere. 

The businesses that run these networks are known as transaction envelope companies. And nearly everyone is a member of a TEC. AmazonBay, the first and largest, came into being when Amazon and eBay merged in 2015, then bought Ask Jeeves a few months later. Over the next few years AmazonBay bought a bank, a credit card company, and an insurance company to increase the services it could offer 

As this new retail model took off around 2020, other TECs began to form based on mergers of credit card providers and major retailers. (Bank of Wal-Martia and ProvidiPenney are among the second-tier players.) The TECs quickly realized that the battle for customers was multigenerational: The children of members would find it hard to leave their parents' TEC, since all their data from birth would be embedded in the system. Over the next decade all the TECs engaged in a furious race to lock in memberships. But AmazonBay was first and ended up by far the largest, with 1.8 billion members, mostly in Asia. And at AmazonBay, shipping is always free 

2. TOYOTA Flying cars are still not an option. But Toyotas continue to fly off the virtual lot half a century after the American and European markets appeared saturated. Why? Growing populations of young and newly affluent workers in Asia can finally afford them. Although the world population has stabilized at around eight billion, with each successive decade both India and China have seen 100 million people climb out of poverty and into the market for a car. After Toyota won the fuel-cell race early in the century, the Japanese automaker became the undisputed king of the car business. (Note: In 2024 the editors of Fortune, recognizing the huge economic and demographic shift toward Asia, made the Fortune 500 a single global list and moved the magazine's offices to Honolulu.) It was only a matter of time before GM and Ford evolved from manufacturers into the marketing and sales firms they are today 

Toyotas in 2054 resemble the cars of 2004--a passenger compartment, a separate engine compartment, and four wheels. But on and under the surface they are a whole different machine, one that's safer, more beautiful, more efficient, and much less polluting (part of the reason radical climate change was avoided). The surface is made of new materials like Ultraluminum--a woven combination of aluminum and smart-carbon nanotubes--that are extremely strong and light, absorb shock, and whose texture, color, pattern, and dynamics are all programmable. Driving the wheels of nearly all new cars are electric motors. They vary widely from fuel cells to turbogenerators, but all are more powerful than combustion engines 

The biggest change in driving, however, is the evolution of the smart car, combined with the smart highway. Big leaps in computing power have made possible an infrastructure that enables cars to interact with one another and their surroundings, making accidents much less likely. In fact, having a smart car and driving in EG (electronic guidance) lanes has become a prerequisite for life insurance. 

3. SINOGAZZON The first fully integrated natural gas company-- combining production, shipping, and distribution--came into being in 2025. That year Gazzon, the result of an earlier merger of Exxon and Gazprom, the Russian gas producer, bought the Chinese distributor Sinogaz. Right away Sinogazzon, based in Shanghai, was able to develop a dominant position in supplying the 1.5 billion Chinese who need fossil fuels to drive their cars, heat their homes, light their offices, and manufacture products for Earth's other seven billion inhabitants 

Oil production finally peaked in 2035 and began its decline in 2040. At that point hydrogen derived from natural gas began to replace gasoline, further expanding the gas market in China. Because of its market access and financial prowess, and the technological leadership Exxon had developed early in the century, Sinogazzon has been exceptionally successful in exploiting gas resources around the world, with huge gas projects in Australia, Qatar, and Antarctica. 

4. SINOBIOCORP The revolution in molecular biology and genetics triggered a huge wave of innovative industries early in the 21st century. Unlike the U.S. and Europe, where people were squeamish about biohancement, Asia embraced the chance to improve on nature. Vast aging populations in China, India, and Japan created a market hungry for the cures of the new biology. So the new life-science giants grew mostly in Asia in drugs, agriculture, and bioindustrial processing. Playing in all three markets is the world market leader in life-science, Sinobiocorp, formed after a 2010 state-driven roll- up of Chinese biotech startups 

After losing its economic leadership role to Shanghai, Hong Kong has become China's center of pleasure and high-end living. Not surprisingly, Sinobiocorp and other companies have made Hong Kong the center for the most advanced health care in the world, with life extension the fastest-growing business. The maximum lifespan is headed toward 150. Sinobiocorp runs a chain of Rong Hua Long Life Spas, which provide services that include tissue regeneration to reverse aging, tissue realignment to change appearance, muscle development to add mass, and, it's rumored, complete cloning 

5. INDOSOFT Computers woke up in 2043. But revolutionary change in the software business began years earlier as the U.S. giants began to be dominated by their Indian talent. Over time the network of global Indian clans moved their center of action from the U.S. to India. So in 2020, when Microsoft and Oracle merged, it just seemed natural to change the name to Indosoft and move the headquarters to the new Gatestown complex in Mumbai. Though ever more of life is embedded in a matrix of software, software itself has proven resistant to large productivity improvements. The most demanding problem has been to maintain the many layers of programming that have been built on top of one another for decades. As a result, software remains a time-intensive business dependent on large numbers of smart, efficient workers 

But no longer necessarily human ones. Indosoft's latest generation of artificial-intelligence units (AIUs) are capable of improving their own programming and performance. Now the company's developers are beginning to wonder if they are at last at risk of putting themselves out of work. The company recently laid off thousands of low-level employees and transferred their jobs to virtual programmers--a phenomenon known as intelligence sourcing, or I-sourcing. As more intellectual activities are handed off to AIUs, the debate on I-sourcing is sure to heat up. 

6. IBM Possibly the single most significant moment in business during the FORTUNE 500's second 50 years was the day in 2023 when IBM introduced the BohrBox, its first quantum hypercomputer for office use. The almost unimaginably large increases in memory derived from computing at the atomic level--bean-sized capsules of gas can hold trillions of times more information than antique hard drives--revolutionized the IT industry once again. Quantum computers enabled the solving of incredibly complex problems like climate forecasting, missile defense, and traffic management 

As the market leader, IBM has been the biggest beneficiary of the near-universal deployment of this technology. (In 2035, Big Blue solidified its dominance by buying HP, which had acquired Intel a decade earlier.) The ceaseless drive for productivity means that intelligent devices are now embedded in nearly everything and able to communicate with one another. Nearly all technology is accessible through voice recognition. Where once we had to use a keyboard and mouse, now we talk to our car, our home, and our office systems. Many of them anticipate our needs and act in advance 

In this new network marketplace, companies like IBM are driven by "bit fees." They charge a small fee for every bit of the unimaginably large amount of data manipulated and moved for their customers 

7. PATTELCO Communication technologies and the companies that deliver them help shape their eras. The telephone (Bell), television (RCA), the Internet (Cisco), and mobile phones (Nokia) all defined their moments in time. In 2054 the technology that is redefining our lives is telepresence, and the key company is Pattelco 

The Indian software giant, originally a software startup of the Patel clan, bought the remnants of AT&T in 2025 and incorporated the long-distance company's initials in its name when it launched the telepresence (TP) industry. As with telephones and PCs before them, nearly every room, public and private, at home and at work, is now equipped with telepresence devices. They are either wall-mounted displays or projection units that create the illusion of another location halfway around the world or just down the hall. TP makes virtual travel possible because of its ability to convey the experience of another location convincingly and for people at the other end to experience you as present 

Every telepresence device comes loaded with Pattelco's BeThere software as the standard operating system, creating vast licensing revenues for the Patel clan along with the stupendous flow of bit fees Pattelco gets for rendering all those lifelike images 

The Patel clan built its business plan around the old Microsoft model. That's why the BeThere operating system is constantly being upgraded. The current version is BeThere2050 v.3.0, and the hot new application is BeThere Interplanetary, which allows you walk around space bases on Mars, Titan, and the moon. The main demand, though, has come as a substitute for business travel. Security issues and a wave of new human viruses beginning in 2003 made air travel a real hassle. Telepresence, which didn't become widely accepted as a form of social interaction until around 2030, really took off with the Filipino Goat Flu pandemic of 2039. 

8. NESTLE Once known for chocolates and baby formula, Nestle dominates nutriceuticals, the new class of foods that bridges the gap between agriculture and drugs. Europe remains the trendsetter in lifestyles, food, and fashion, and Nestle, the continent's largest company, got an early jump on the competition in the nutrifood biz by funding intensive anthropological research to better tailor its products to local cultures in the emerging world 

Nestle focuses on the biology of healthy people rather than sick ones, and that's reflected in its mission statement: "Making well people even better." For example, its famous line of Smarties chocolates now contains stem-cell memory boosters. The new Lean & Clean Cuisine frozen meals are programmed to automatically lower cholesterol and dissolve trans fats. Nestle has also revamped its cosmeceutical division. Its L'Ore-All brand features a lipstick that provides the recommended daily dose of 100 vitamins and minerals. 

9. NANOBOTIX Just as the invention of production plants powered first with steam and then with electricity drove the Industrial Revolution of the 19th century, so is nanotechnology driving a whole new revolution in the middle part of the 21st century. A product of the first wave of consolidation in nanotechnology startups, Nanobotix, in Palo Alto, has been the pioneer in manufacturing on the atomic scale. Its scientists first cracked the code on how complex molecules in natural systems form more complex structures-- such as proteins that become full-sized human beings--then began applying what they learned by "programming" molecules to create electronic devices. By 2030 more and more sophisticated devices were built from the atom up 

While steel, cement, and other commodities are still made in giant factories, almost all high-tech devices are produced using nanoconstruction methods. Instead of large centralized factories, digital products are put together locally inside MRI-sized machines by programmed molecules, or "nano-assemblers." In 2042, Nanobotix introduced its most advanced product, the desktop factory. It resembles an early laser printer, but in the front it has a transparent cylinder where the user can see the object being manufactured come into being as the nanoassemblers do their work. With a supply of natural gas, a few trace chemicals, and a download of software, it is now possible to produce, say, a telepresence starter console for the kids overnight in your home office 

10. NEWS CORP. People want to be informed and entertained in greater numbers than ever before. And after holding back the tide of digital distribution for nearly two decades, News Corp. switched direction in 2010 and led the trend of making all types of media available on demand--movies, newspapers, magazines, books, music. The fight among advertisers over consumers' attention--or "A-time," to use the latest marketing buzzword--is fiercer than ever 

Much more than its rivals TimeDisney (owner of FORTUNE's parent) and ViaComcast, News Corp. has created innovative new services to capture that A-time. For instance, the hottest new thing in ubiquicasting is the company's media-telepresence (MTP) service. For a substantial bit fee, anyone can be a sports hero or movie star or live out any other dream--advanced computer technology virtually embeds a person in the event. MTP is expensive--these services tax even the fastest quantum computers--but incredibly popular and profitable. But the company's biggest business by far is the ownership of sports teams and their distribution rights all over the world in nearly every sport 

Amazingly, Rupert Murdoch, who became the first person to download himself into a quantum computer, is still the most powerful media magnate in the world. The News Corp. CEO spent the last ten years of his life entering everything he had ever known and as much of his persona as he could into a state-of-the-art IBM 2.4 petabyte quantum bubble array. When his body finally left this world in 2027 at age 96, a virtual Murdoch awakened. Insiders say the new chief executive is now, if possible, even more of a force to be reckoned with for one simple reason: He never sleeps. 

Quote:Cars have clean and powerful electric motors. Drivers control the color and texture of the car's surface and take their hands off the wheel on the highway. Long Life Spas offer treatments that allow customers to reverse aging, tone up muscles, and even clone themselves.Rupert Murdoch, the first human to download himself into a quantum computer, remains in charge of News Corp. as the virtual chairman at age 125. 

COLOR ILLUSTRATION: ILLUSTRATIONS BY ISTVAN BANYAI Telepresence Virtual Shopping COLOR ILLUSTRATION: ILLUSTRATIONS BY ISTVAN BANYAI Electronic Guidance Systems COLOR ILLUSTRATION: ILLUSTRATIONS BY ISTVAN BANYAI Tissue Regeneration Therapy COLOR ILLUSTRATION: ILLUSTRATIONS BY ISTVAN BANYAI 


Document FORTU00020040324e0450000n


More Like This

 Article 366 *******************    



Deals & Deal Makers
IPO Outlook:

IPO Outlook: Intersections Inc. Profits From Fears Of Identity Theft 

By Raymond Hennessey Dow Jones Newswires 
937 words 
26 April 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C4
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Who says crime doesn't pay? 

Intersections Inc., a company that sells identity-theft protection and credit-management programs, plans to go public this week, selling 6.25 million shares at $15 to $17 a share through Deutsche Bank AG's Deutsche Bank Securities and Lazard. 

The initial public offering has been marketed as one of the few ways for investors to play the growing problem of identity theft, which occurs anytime someone steals personal information and uses it to obtain credit or take out loans under someone else's name. 

By most accounts, it's a big problem. The Federal Trade Commission said in a report in September that it estimates 27.3 million people were the victims of identity theft over the past five years, but that 9.9 million were victims in 2002 alone. The losses for 2002, the last year for which data are available, totaled $48 billion for businesses and $5 billion for consumers, the FTC estimated. 

It's that kind of data that has investors interested in Intersections' stock sale, said Sal Morreale, who tracks IPOs for Cantor Fitzgerald LP in Los Angeles. 

"Identity theft is a big concern," he said. "So this is a company right in the middle of a big issue. It's a nice-looking deal." 

Essentially, Intersections monitors credit reports at the three largest reporting agencies -- Equifax Inc. (which owns about 27% of the company before the IPO), Experian and TransUnion -- and updates subscribers with any changes. The company also reviews a client's credit score. 

It's a profitable business for Intersections. In 2003, the company saw its revenue grow to $147.3 million from $98 million in 2002, according to offering documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Net income grew to $19.4 million in 2003, from $5.3 million a year earlier. 

Yet, the public attention over identity theft could also work against Intersections. In the past, it was expensive for consumers to wade through their credit reports: Since the data from all three agencies don't always correspond, consumers had to pay for reports from each company to try to find potential errors or signs of identity theft. 

But federal and state governments have made it easier and cheaper to obtain these reports. The biggest move came in December, when a new law, the Fair and Accurate Transactions, or FACT, act, was approved allowing consumers one look at their full credit reports free once a year. That federal law mirrored laws already on the books in several states. 

Most consumers can get a free credit report anyway if they've been a victim of fraud, or if they've been denied things like credit, insurance or employment because of their credit reports. 

Many consumers who subscribed to Intersections soon canceled. Cancellations within the first 90 days as a percentage of new subscribers were 29% in 2003, though that rate was an improvement over the 33.8% rate in 2002, according to SEC filings. For full-year 2003, 40.9% of the subscribers on its books that year canceled, though that, too, was an improvement over the 43.4% rate a year earlier. 

Elsewhere in the IPO market: 

-- The Intersections IPO will be a coming-out party of sorts for Lazard. The investment boutique, led since 2002 by banking giant Bruce Wasserstein, has been involved in a number of equity-capital deals over the past several years. But Intersections will mark the first time it is serving as a lead manager on a U.S.-listed IPO since February 1998, when Lazard led the IPO of Royal Olympic Cruise Lines Inc., according to data from Thomson Financial in New York. Lazard is sharing the lead role with Piper Jaffray Cos. on another deal expected in the coming weeks from biotech company Inhibitex Inc. 

-- Everyone talks about nanotechnology, but there have been few pure-play investment opportunities in the sector. That may change soon. Nanosys Inc. on Thursday filed to raise up to $115 million of stock in an IPO to be led by Merrill Lynch & Co. and Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. The company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., has been talked up for months by the Silicon Valley venture-capital community, but it is still thin on revenue and long on losses. Last year, it lost $9.5 million on just $3 million in sales, according to SEC filings. 

-- Salesforce.com Inc., the customer-relationship software maker planning an IPO later this quarter, set initial terms on its deal last week that were much more modest than many analysts expected. The company said it would sell 10 million shares at $7.50 to $8.50 a share, valuing the deal at roughly $80 million. When it made its first IPO filing in December, the company filed to sell up to $115 million of stock. The reduction, though, is likely tied to a recent restatement of past earnings, based on a faulty way salesforce.com booked the commissions paid to its own salespeople. 

-- Underwriters have set a tentative debut date for the IPO of Greenhill & Co., the boutique investment bank founded by former Morgan Stanley and Smith Barney banker Robert Greenhill. The company is targeting the week of May 3, probably after the close of trading on May 5, to sell its five million initial shares. Price talk on the offering, which is being led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is $14 to $16 a share. 

Document J000000020040426e04q00021


More Like This

 Article 367 *******************    



Heard on the Street

Tech IPOs Find Launching Pad --- New Offerings Tumble Onto Market, Ahead of Google; Investors Ignore Scant Revenue and Big Losses 

By Pui-Wing Tam 
1,151 words 
27 April 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

TECHNOLOGY IPOS haven't been waiting for Google. 

A few months ago, many investors were hoping that Google Inc., the popular search engine, would reignite interest in initial public offerings. The thinking went that the tech IPO market, which had waned following the dot-com bust, needed a name-brand deal such as Google's to jolt it back from the dead. Google is expected to announce plans to push forward with an IPO this week, but the tech IPO market already has surged back to life without its help. 

Eleven U.S. technology companies have gone public this year, up from none in the same period a year ago, according to Thomson Financial. And the rush is just beginning. Since March 1, 22 tech concerns have filed to go public; that is more than in the preceding four months combined. The 13 tech companies that filed for an IPO in March were the most in one month since October 2000, when there were 23 filings. Among the companies now waiting to go public: online jeweler Blue Nile Inc.; antispam-software maker Brightmail Inc.; online software maker salesforce.com Inc.; and Linux firm Lindows Inc. 

"Compared with a few years ago, there's clearly significant activity in tech IPOs right now, and that should stretch into a really active fall period for IPOs," says Tom Taulli, co-manager of the $10 million Oceanus Value Fund, who closely tracks new offerings. 

Driving the revival are tech companies seeking access to public capital, as well as cash-rich investors looking for new investments. IPOs provide a healthy stream of fees for investment banks. Furthermore, venture capitalists are looking to IPOs again as a way to recover long-held investments in private companies. "There's been a lot of inventory on the venture side [that needs to go public], so many of us have been waiting for the market to awaken," says Steve Domenick, a venture capitalist at Sevin Rosen Funds in Palo Alto, Calif. 

With this backdrop, waiting for the Google IPO just didn't make sense, say some tech companies. Some feared Google, which is expected to be one of the hottest IPOs in a decade, would capture the attention -- and cash -- of investors. James Walker, chief financial officer of educational-device maker AlphaSmart Inc., which listed its stock publicly in March, said his Los Gatos, Calif., company purposely wanted to get into the market before Google did. "We're just a small-cap, and we didn't want to get lost in the shuffle," he says. 

But investors beware: Many of the firms seeking IPOs have scant revenues and big losses, echoing the worst excesses of the tech-IPO boom. Lindows, which adapts the free Linux operating system for personal computers, recorded $2 million in revenue last year but posted a loss of $4 million. Its auditors recently questioned its ability to continue as a going concern, absent additional investments. Wireless-software maker Seven Networks Inc., which filed to go public in late March, lost $12.9 million in 2003, on revenue of $6.9 million. And nanotechnology concern Nanosys Inc., which filed to go public last week, had revenue of $3 million and a loss of $9.2 million last year. 

Officials at Lindows, Seven Networks and Nanosys declined to comment, citing the quiet period before their IPO. 

These companies are still more solid than some of the dot-coms that went public with little more than a business plan in the late 1990s, says David Liu, senior vice president of investment bank Broadview International, a division of Jefferies Group. But he says that companies in "hot" sectors -- such as specialty semiconductors, online advertising and Chinese Internet companies -- are trying to capitalize on investor interest to go public despite poor financials. 

As a result, Mr. Liu believes many of the tech companies that are waiting to go public now won't succeed. "I'm just not sure how many of those will get done," he says. 

Chad Keck, co-head of corporate finance at investment bank Needham & Co., says he has told clients they need to be profitable and have quarterly revenue of $20 million to go public. But as investor appetite for IPOs has increased this year, that is changing. "More people seem to be accepting the speculative and early stage IPO, which is troubling," he says. 

A successful Google IPO could generate a lot of copycat deals from companies that aren't as profitable as Google, says Rich Peterson, chief market strategist at Thomson Financial. "Things like profitability and revenue become secondary in whatever is the hot industry," he says. 

Indeed, some unprofitable tech concerns with few prospects for immediate revenue growth have recently managed to go public. In early February, for example, solar-technology firm DayStar Technologies Inc. listed its shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market, raising $10.5 million. The Grass Valley, Calif., company, which has eight employees, was able to go public even though it had revenue of just $72,000 in the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2003, and a loss of about $810,000 during the same period. DayStar's main product, a thin film solar cell, won't be out until mid-2005. 

Kelly McCarthy, DayStar's vice president of investor relations, says many investors had asked the company if it was jumping the gun by going public. But Ms. McCarthy says its listing was "perfect timing," because it was offering investors the chance to "invest in an early stage technology company at the forefront of the renewable-energy industry." 

DayStar shares began trading on the Nasdaq Small-Cap Market in late March at around $2.40. In 4 p.m. trading yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market, DayStar shares fell 4.5% to $3.40 each. The rising share price puts DayStar in the minority among recent IPOs. Six of the 10 tech firms that went public in the first quarter are now trading below their offering price, says Thomson Financial's Mr. Peterson. 

Some of the newly listed companies are profitable, including AlphaSmart. In its first quarterly financial results as a public company earlier this month, AlphaSmart posted net income of $63,000, with revenue of $8.8 million, up from $8.3 million in the same period a year ago. AlphaSmart sold shares in February at $6. In 4 p.m. trading yesterday on the Nasdaq, AlphaSmart shares fell 2.8% to $5.20. 

Meanwhile, SiRF Technology Holdings Inc., a maker of location-based technology, reported first-quarter net income of $4.1 million, on revenue of $28.4 million. SiRF started trading Thursday at $12. By the end of its first day of trading, its shares had jumped 28%. 

Document J000000020040427e04r0002z


More Like This

 Article 368 *******************    



Two Founders Get A New Job: Handling All That Money --- Up to Now, Frugal Pair Favor Gadgets and the Prius; Managers at the Door 

By Robert Frank 
1,033 words 
30 April 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

What will a couple of 30-something computer geeks do with $8 billion? 

Google's expected initial public offering will create two of the country's largest new private fortunes -- and mark one of the biggest personal-wealth-creation events since the end of the stock-market bubble in 2001. 

Founders Larry Page, 31, and Sergey Brin, 30, by keeping an extraordinary 30% of the shares in the company, could be worth an estimated $4 billion or more each based on estimates of the value of the IPO. The deal would quadruple the founders' current estimated wealth and vault them both past Donald Trump, who has an estimated $2.5 billion in net worth. 

Like all the super-wealthy, Mr. Brin and Mr. Page will now have to manage tax shelters, estate plans, sophisticated investment vehicles and intricate hedges to preserve their wealth. In short, they will have two companies to manage: Google and their massive new estates. 

"These guys will become businesses in themselves," said David Rosenberg, head of investment solutions at Citigroup Private Bank, which advises more than 100 billionaire families. "Their life is about to get incredibly complicated." 

The two former Stanford computer-science graduate students both grew up in middle-class homes as sons of college professors. Mr. Brin moved to the U.S. from the Soviet Union in 1979, and his mathematician father taught at the University of Maryland. 

Despite their business stardom, they've shunned the executive lifestyle. They each drive a Toyota Prius, the boxy hybrid gas-and-electric car. Mr. Brin is often spotted whizzing around the Googleplex, the company's name for its headquarters campus in Mountain View, Calif., on a Segway scooter. Mr. Page prefers roller-blades and bicycles. Mr. Brin, a trapeze fanatic, usually wears jeans and a T-shirt to work, while Mr. Page leans toward collared shirts and khakis. 

Both have girlfriends. Mr. Page has been dating an employee at Google, according to people close to the company. Mr. Brin, who had been on the dating circuit until recently, has started going out with the sister of a Google employee. 

People close to the pair say they're famous for their light-hearted theme parties. On Orkut -- a "social networking" site affiliated with Google, that lets people list their friends, interests and hobbies -- Mr. Brin names 117 friends. He lists his "communities" as Stanford, springboard diving, Transhumanists, Disruptive Technologies and Nanotechnology. 

Mr. Page on the same service names 111 friends. His interests are listed as Stanford, University of Michigan, and "What Should Google Do?" 

The only lavish expenses that the two are known for are gadgets. Mr. Page was recently sporting a digital communicator around his neck that allows him to call friends, via voice recognition. 

It isn't clear whether Mr. Brin or Mr. Page have hired wealth advisers. Since they already had an estimated worth of about $1 billion last year, based on the private value of their holdings, it is likely that they already have a financial plan and team of private advisers. 

One piece of advice given to Messrs. Brin and Page by an adviser: buy a jet, which could save them time. In the prospectus filed yesterday, Google disclosed that its chief executive officer, Eric Schmidt, owns a share in two jets that he uses for business. The prospectus said he occasionally lets other Google executives use the jet, though it didn't name the executives. 

A spokeswoman for Google declined to comment on Mr. Brin's and Mr. Page's personal lives. 

Since Mr. Page and Mr. Brin have shown little interest in conspicuous consumption, some friends speculate they'll give some of their wealth to charitable causes. Both men have an intense interest in outer space and the environment. Google has also started working with Stanford to help find ways of using computer technology for genetics and disease research. 

In their letter to prospective investors, Mr. Brin and Mr. Page touted Google Grants, a program in which the company works with hundreds of nonprofits on the environment, poverty and human rights. The company is also setting up the Google Foundation, which it will fund with employee time and company stock. "We hope someday this institution may eclipse Google itself in terms of overall world impact by ambitiously applying innovation and significant resources to the largest of the world's problems," the two founders said in the letter. 

According to yesterday's filing, Mr. Page and Mr. Brin each hold more than 38 million shares, or about 15%, of the company. It's unclear what the shares will sell for, but analysts have estimated the company's value could reach more than $25 billion. However, their ownership stake could be reduced by newly issued shares in the IPO. 

In an unusual move, Mr. Brin and Mr. Page said they expect to sell "a fraction" of their shares in the IPO to meet investor demand for the stock. There are restrictions on their sale of other shares for at least six months after the IPO. 

The competition to manage the fortunes of Mr. Brin and Mr. Page is fierce. Dozens of wealth advisers and private bankers have been calling the two entrepreneurs in a bid to manage their estates, according to people familiar with the situation. Industry executives say the firms leading Google's IPO -- Credit Suisse First Boston and Morgan Stanley -- might have an edge in winning the private-wealth business as well. The companies declined to comment. 

Management fees on Mr. Page's and Mr. Brin's estates will probably reach several million dollars a year, not to mention legal- and tax-advice payments. With the wealth-advisory business just beginning to recover from the recession, Google represents the first great hope since 2001 for a return to the giant wealth-creation of the late 1990s. 

"Everybody is at Google's door," says Citigroup's Mr. Rosenberg. "People in our industry have been waiting four years for this to happen." 

--- 

David Bank contributed to this article. 

Document J000000020040430e04u0002k


More Like This

 Article 369 *******************    



Up Front: FACE TIME

JOHN BUCHER: NANOTECH: IS IT NASTY OR NICE? 

By Jessi Hempel Edited by Ira Sager 
187 words 
3 May 2004
BusinessWeek
16
Number 3881
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

The nanotech industry has a lot riding on the research of John Bucher. He's one of the government's top scientists testing the toxicity of nanoparticles -- the hot area of research which may soon be responsible for everything from stain-resistant trousers to solar panels the size of credit cards. On Mar. 28, a Southern Methodist Univer-sity study tied the synthetic molecules to brain damage in fish, fueling concerns about the health and environmental effects of nanoparticles. 

As head of the toxicology program at the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences in Research Triangle Park, N.C., Bucher's research could determine how the technology is used to develop new medicines, mat- erials, and energy sources. Bucher, 52, cautions that little is known about the effects of nanotech. ``It's good we're looking at things now rather than waiting until they are in the environment.'' Bucher, who hopes to have answers by the summer of 2005, won't say if he wears stain-resistant pants. 

Document BW00000020040503e0530001b


More Like This

 Article 370 *******************    



Healthy, Wealthy and Wise 

By John F. Cogan, R. Glenn Hubbard and Daniel P. Kessler 
2,095 words 
4 May 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A20
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

After a century of U.S. innovations in medical procedures, technologies and pharmaceuticals, the quality of American medical care is the envy of the world. Yet our health-care system is in deep trouble. Annual health-care costs are posting double-digit increases, the number of uninsured is at an all-time high, and public satisfaction is sinking rapidly. For these reasons, the status quo health policy is not likely to endure. Without a viable alternative policy, politicians will seek to "fix" our health-care system by recourse to the heavy hand of government. 

Free markets are a proven way to discipline costs, encourage innovation and increase quality. The starting point to fixing the health-care system is recognizing that a handful of existing public policies prevent markets from working, and then changing them. Poorly conceived federal tax policies, insurance regulation, and barriers to entry, in particular, have insulated consumers from costs and inhibited competition. 

Rising costs lie at the heart of the health-care problem. Each percentage-point rise in health-insurance costs increases the number of uninsured by 300,000 people. This also creates a vicious cost spiral because when healthy individuals opt out of insurance, the costs for the remaining insured rise. The recent increase in costs also has impacts beyond the health-care market. For many employees, rising insurance costs have become a serious drain on their disposable income. The typical worker now pays $750 more per year for insurance than just three years ago. 

Efforts by employers to stem the cost escalation have not only failed to succeed, they have also sharply diminished patient satisfaction and raised patient frustration. In a recent nationwide poll by Market Strategies, 86% of those surveyed expressed deep concerns about rising costs; two-thirds worried about the difficulties of obtaining the best medical treatment; and six out of 10 regarded the likelihood of bankruptcy due to major illness as a serious problem. Health-care consumers feel that they are losing their freedom to choose doctors and specialists. 

Having sketched a portrait of the problems, we offer some suggestions for an overhaul: 

-- Reform the tax treatment of health-care expenses. The most far-reaching and misguided government policy, established more than 60 years ago, allowed employer-provided health care to be exempt from taxation. Under this policy, medical care purchased through an employer's insurance plan is tax-free, while direct medical-care purchases by patients must be made with after-tax income. The tax preference for employer health insurance has been instrumental in creating today's third-party payment system. In this perverse world, true insurance, in the form of coverage for catastrophic health events, is the exception; prepaid health care, in the form of coverage with low deductibles and copayments, is the rule. The tax preference for insurance is the primary reason five out of every six dollars of health-care spending are paid by third parties. 

Using third parties to pay for health care is so pervasive that we accept it as a natural part of the health-care system. Yet there's nothing natural about it. Food and shelter are even more basic to our well-being, but we don't use insurance to buy bread or repair broken windows. 

Low copayments and deductibles fuel excessive cost growth and breed wasteful medical practice. The reason is, as Milton Friedman put it, "Nobody spends somebody else's money as wisely as he spends his own." Medical care is no exception; when it is purchased through a low-copayment employer-sponsored health-insurance plan, the patient thinks he or she is paying only a fraction of the costs. Somebody else is paying the rest. As a result, consumers have little incentive to limit their use of unnecessary medical-care services, little incentive to shop for the health plan that best suits their needs in a cost effective way, and little incentive to evaluate their care on the basis of value. 

Leveling the playing field between employer-provided insurance and out-of-pocket payments is an essential step to fixing health care. Either the tax exemption for employer-provided health insurance must be repealed or a broad-based tax deduction for out-of-pocket expenses must be created. The former faces enormous political barriers (it would add about $1,500 to the typical family's annual tax burden) and would ignore a positive effect of encouraging everyone to have private insurance coverage. 

We propose a simple change that will fundamentally alter the way people buy health care. All individually purchased insurance and out-of-pocket expenses would become tax deductible for persons who have at least catastrophic insurance coverage. The tax deduction could be taken by persons who claim the standard deduction on their tax returns and those who itemize deductions. All purchases of health care would receive the same income-tax treatment. 

With a level playing field, workers will no longer have a tax incentive to take their compensation in the form of expensive health insurance with low copayments, and will shift to health plans with higher deductibles and higher coinsurance rates. Market forces will ensure that the insurance-premium savings will be passed on to workers in the form of higher money wages. Just as workers have borne the burden of rising health-care costs, so will they reap the benefits when costs are brought under control. 

Higher copayments will give consumers more "skin in the game," making them more cost-conscious and more willing to take greater control of health-care decisions. Ultimately, consumers will make better health-care choices, achieving improved health-care outcomes and considerable savings. Based on the RAND Corporation's National Health Insurance Experiment, if the average annual health-plan deductible were to rise from its current level of $250 to even $500 and the typical coinsurance rate were to rise from 20% to 25%, we estimate that annual health-care spending would decline by $65 billion per year. Furthermore, such savings could be achieved without significant adverse consequences for health outcomes. 

This idea builds on recently enacted Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), which offer similar treatment of out-of-pocket expenses for individuals with insurance that meets a specified minimum deductible. Full tax deductibility would be less prescriptive. It would permit individual decisions and the marketplace to decide the proper size of deductibles without the tax code's distorting influence. Full tax deductibility would keep the savings-account feature of HSAs, which creates a strong incentive for consumers to save for future medical expenses. 

-- Promote portable, nationwide insurance. With the tax playing-field leveled, consumers would still face highly balkanized state insurance markets encumbered by politically motivated benefit mandates and other forms of excessive regulation. There are nearly 1,500 specific insurance coverage requirements imposed by state politicians in effect in the U.S. Although some of these benefits would be freely chosen by consumers, others, such as chiropractic care and acupuncture, have been enacted in response to political pressures by providers. Other state regulations reduce the variety of available health-insurance options and impede competition among insurers. Still others, through "any-willing-provider laws," infringe on the right of health plans to contract with physicians of their choice and thereby impair efforts by health plans to improve quality and reduce costs. 

Consumers need an alternative market that is free to offer new health-care options that would take advantage of full tax deductibility. Therefore, insurance companies should be allowed to offer insurance plans on a nationwide basis, free from costly state benefit mandates and excessive regulations. Regulations should be uniform and cover only essential areas. The benefits of nationwide insurance are considerable. Health insurance will become more portable because people could switch jobs across state lines without risk of its being canceled. All people, but especially the uninsured, would have access to lower-cost insurance options. Health-insurance plans free from state mandates and any-willing-provider laws could cost on average between 7% and 17% less; that's $600-$1,500 per year for the typical family health plan. 

Finally, the policy would bring greater fairness to insurance markets. The burden of excessive state regulation falls mainly on employees of small businesses and persons who buy individual insurance. Large employers who self-insure are exempt from state regulation. Thus, nationwide insurance would permit employees of small firms and individuals who buy insurance on their own to purchase insurance on the same terms and conditions as employees of large firms. 

-- Reduce barriers to entry. For decades, the medical industry and governments at all levels have acted to limit the supply of health professionals. Physician groups and hospitals restrict the number of medical-school entrants and residency positions. Advocates justify these restrictions on the basis of quality and cost control. Yet control by physicians and hospitals on the supply of new physicians -- through restrictions on the number of medical-school entrants and residency positions -- amounts to market participants acting in concert to restrict competition, a clear violation of antitrust law. Ensuring quality, the Supreme Court has already ruled, is no defense against such practices. The process for determining the supply of new physicians should be revised so that a better balance can be struck between the desire to assure quality and the benefits of greater competition. No new legislation is required. The government need only enforce the laws already on the books. 

(MORE) 

Furthermore, state governments have passed laws that prevent certain health professionals, such as nurse practitioners, from delivering care that they are perfectly qualified to provide. The significant shortages of physicians in rural areas and inner cities could be filled by such health professionals. And both state and local governments have enacted laws that prevent medical facilities from locating in certain areas. These laws need to be reviewed to ensure that the high quality of medical professionals is maintained without stifling meaningful competition. 

-- Address head-on the costs of helping the chronically ill. Providing affordable health insurance for chronically ill persons who have predictably high medical expenses year-after-year and who lack sufficient resources to finance them is one of health policy's most vexing problems. Private catastrophic insurance, which provides financial protection for unforeseen major medical expenses, is not well-suited to deal with the long-term chronically ill. State government high-risk pools have been plagued by high cost and government-enforced waiting lines. State insurance-premium risk bands that limit the range of insurance premiums that can be offered have distorted insurance markets and raised insurance rates. 

A more efficient policy would be for the states and the federal government to provide direct subsidies to assist insurance purchases by persistently high-cost, chronically ill people who have inadequate incomes. Such a policy would deliver affordable health insurance to those who need it with minimal distortion of insurance markets. This reform would not only reduce costs across the board; it would also increase access to health insurance and reduce the number of uninsured. Additional access to health insurance among low-income individuals could be provided through health-care tax credits as proposed by the Bush administration and others. 

-- Allow market forces to work. America's health-care policy stands at the crossroads. Either we are going to continue the slow march toward a government-driven system, or we are going to choose a free-market solution that puts consumers in charge. The governmental system ultimately will lead to less choice and a stifling of innovation. The free-market solution will enable America to solve its health-care cost problem and capture the promise of 21st-century medicine; a promise of new cures for diseases and longer lives made possible by the mapping of the human genome, and nanotechnology. 

The ideas we have offered, when combined with existing proposals for reforming the medical-malpractice system and improving consumer education and health-care quality, are a first step to preserving the health-care system's strengths while addressing its weaknesses. 

--- 

Mr. Cogan, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, was deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Hubbard, a professor at Columbia, was chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Kessler, a senior fellow at Hoover, is a professor at Stanford. 

(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Can Market Forces Cure Health Care?" -- WSJ May 14, 2004) 

(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Universal Medicare Would Bring Medi-Disaster" -- WSJ May 19, 2004) 

Document J000000020040504e0540001x


More Like This

 Article 371 *******************    



Science & Technology: Electronics

Just Two Words: Plastic Chips; They can endow just about anything with computer smarts--and they'll be cheap 

By Otis Port in New York, with Rachel Tiplady in Paris and Faith Arner in Rochester, N.Y. 
1,678 words 
10 May 2004
BusinessWeek
109
Volume, No. 3882
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

IT'S CALLED THE SEDUCTION room. Eastman Kodak Co. uses it to woo visitors with the vivid colors that light up new-breed video screens. They're made from organic light-emitting diodes, or OLEDs. And in the room's side-by-side comparisons with ordinary liquid-crystal displays (LCDS), the difference is impressive: Colors are more vibrant, resolution is crisper, and the OLED screens can be viewed from farther off to the sides without visual loss. 

Kodak fell for OLEDs long ago. In 1979, researcher Ching Tang was looking for an inexpensive plastic solar cell to convert light into electricity. Ironically, says Willy C. Shih, president of Kodak's Display & Components Group, Tang stumbled on a polymer recipe that ``did just the opposite.'' His plastic converted electricity into light -- with unprecedented efficiency for an organic compound. Kodak has been smitten ever since. 

Today, the whole display industry loves plastics. Every maker of TV sets and computer monitors is working on OLED screens. In Japan, a dozen companies and four universities are collaborating to build a 60-inch OLED display by 2007, says Kimberly Allen, director for technology research at market watcher iSuppli Corp. Don't look for anything larger than a laptop screen much before then. One reason: The little organic light bulbs that make up the picture elements, or pixels, burn out after about 8,000 hours of use. That's fine for cell phones, which only get used intermittently. But desktop monitors in offices would last only a year or so. Shih says Kodak's latest chemicals promise a tenfold boost in performance. 

Displays, though, barely scratch the surface of what's coming in plastic electronics. A typical home probably has only a handful of displays, but it has hundreds of food containers, toys, medicine bottles, and other items, each of which could be endowed with a modicum of computer smarts if brittle and costly silicon and glass can be replaced with plastic. With the advent of cheap plastic circuits, food packages could sport a ``sell by'' imprint that keeps track of time and turns bright red when the limit is reached. Kids could converse with even low-priced toys, not just the premium ones. ``And a sensor in my daughter's asthma inhaler could warn when it's close to empty,'' says Elsa Reichmanis, director of polymer materials research at Lucent Technologies Inc.'s Bell Laboratories. ``The possible consumer applications are endless.'' 

Moreover, in a world of polymer electronics, virtually any company could become a chipmaker. Thanks to inks made from conductive and semiconductive polymers, it will soon be possible to print proletarian circuits on almost any surface using an inkjet printer or offset press. A billion-dollar semiconductor factory isn't needed, notes Jim Tully, chief of Gartner Inc.'s research arm in Europe, ``so this will open the door for a large number of manufacturers'' to make poly chips for a host of everyday products. 

THINGS THAT THINK 

POLYMER ELECTRONICS can't challenge silicon in heavy-duty number-crunching jobs now, although that may be just a matter of time. Plastic transistors today are positively poky compared with silicon versions, concedes Alan J. Heeger, the University of California at Santa Barbara physicist who shared a Nobel prize in 2000 for helping to create the first conductive polymer in 1977. But the speed of poly transistors has been rising steadily. ``Every improvement,'' says Heeger, ``expands the potential market.'' 

How much might the poly-chip market be worth? Motorola Inc. sees an opportunity for new applications that could reach as much as $300 billion ultimately -- more than double the total worldwide sales of silicon chips last year. Since plastic chips would cost a fraction of silicon-chip prices, hitting that target would take many times the 100 billion silicon chips cranked out last year. So Motorola is working with Dow Chemical and Xerox to develop printing methods that could spew out flexible plastic circuits like so much newspaper, at perhaps 300 feet per minute. The trio's big breakthrough came in April: Beng Ong, manager of poly-chip research at Xerox Research Centre of Canada, unveiled a new ink for printing plastic chips that can be used anywhere. (Previous inks were sensitive to oxygen, so printing had to be done in enclosures filled with an inert gas.) 

In addition to catalyzing new markets, plastic chips could also supplant silicon chips in a growing number of current applications. By combining polymers with other organic materials, such as carbon nanotubes, composite materials ``will sidestep today's limitations and compete with the very best silicon transistors,'' predicts John A. Rogers, a materials scientist at the University of Illinois. In March, Rogers' group unveiled a new way to produce high-speed plastic chips. It resembles the rotogravure technique used to print raised-ink letters on business cards. 

Organic-inorganic hybrids also show promise. In March, a group of IBM researchers led by David B. Mitzi revealed a technique that can coat plastics with a very thin semiconducting film of metal, such as tin sulfide. Electrons zip through this structure up to 10 times faster than typical poly chips, and Mitzi says an additional fivefold increase may be possible. Last year, University of Toronto researchers showed that hybrid chips can generate pulses of infrared light for fiber-optics systems if the polymer is salted with 5-nanometer dots of lead sulfide. 

For Europe, the ascent of polymer electronics holds special promise because of the Continent's strong chemicals industry. So the European Union in March coughed up half the cost of PolyApply, a $29 million, five-year collaboration involving 20 companies and research institutes. The first goal, says PolyApply coordinator Luigi Occhipinti, head of strategic research at STMicroelectronics, will be to develop polymer radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags -- essentially smart bar codes with antennae that enable individual packages and products to communicate with computers in factories, warehouses, stores, and, eventually, homes. 

The final result, predicts Occhipinti, will be ``ambient intelligence.'' Cheap chips will be everywhere, even on the surface of textile fibers, wirelessly jabbering back and forth. ``Things that think,'' he adds, will be ``truly ubiquitous.'' 

Only plastic chips can be cheap enough to make this happen, notes Bernard J. Kippelen, a University of Arizona researcher. There's a limit on how small, and hence cheap, silicon chips can get -- 5 cents to 10 cents is considered rock bottom. But even that's too expensive for consumer giants such as Procter & Gamble Co., which would need tens of billions of tags a year. ``Wal-Mart, P&G, Gillette, and lots of others all want lower-cost tags,'' says Paul F. Baude, head of RFID development at 3M. If plastic tags bring the price down to a penny, says iSuppli's Allen, digital readouts on subway and commuter cards that show the balance may be possible. 

Companies in the silicon-chip game are also exploring polymeric potentials. Researchers at Hewlett-Packard Co.'s HP Labs, for example, foresee building ultratiny transistors from custom-designed organic molecules. One idea is a row of hydrogen atoms encircled by a benzene ring that serves as an on/off switch by sliding back and forth. The notion of molecular electronics, or moletronics, is sizzling at places such as Cornell University, State University of New York at Stony Brook, and Pennsylvania State University. Because of the chemical versatility that polymers offer, it may be possible to tailor polymer chains that serve as memory storehouses or duplicate the logic circuits in microprocessors. That might lead to pinhead-size plastic chips with the power of today's supercomputers -- made in virtual test tubes, not billion-dollar silicon factories. 

Moletronics probably won't be a viable contender for silicon's crown until after 2010, says Bell Labs's Reichmanis. By then, you may read the news on thin, flexible screens that unroll like window shades. Some plastic displays -- alternatives to OLEDs -- are already moving into the commercial arena. One closely watched technology is ``electronic paper,'' developed by E Ink in Cambridge, Mass. The first consumer product is an electronic book that Sony and Royal Philips Electronics have just launched in Japan. The size of a thin book, it opens to reveal a paperlike, black-and-white screen that changes the text from page to page by rotating its tiny pixel balls, each of which is half black, half white. Behind the screen is enough memory to store an entire library of 500 digital books. So its name, LIBRIe, is apt. Cost? Just $380. 

LIBRIe's screen is rigid, but Philips' new Polymer Vision (PV) unit is itching to launch a flexible follow-on. By summer, PV will be churning out prototype five-inch displays just three sheets of paper thick, says General Manager Bas van Rens. They can roll up inside a fat fountain-pen-size holder. The case could be fitted with an antenna to download news and e-mail wirelessly from the Internet whenever a user whips out the e-pen. And the length of the case could grow, eventually accommodating tabloid-size screens. For the British market, the tubes might even be topped off with an umbrella. 


 (available online)
Bright Future

Flat-panel displays using organic light-emitting diodes are one of the hotter areas in polymer electronics. Here are the key sectors:

APPLICATION             MILLIONS OF DOLLARS*
                        2004    2009
Camcorders              12      156
Cameras                 61      266
Desktop Monitors        0       189
Handheld Games          19      117
Industrial Equipment    9       321
Mobile Phones           408     1383
Portable Computers      6       313
Portable DVD Players    0       44
Television              0       31
Others                  23      319
Total                   538     3139

* estimates
Data: iSuppli Corp.
   

Photograph: PIXEL POWER Flexible electronic ``pages'' look like the future of paper. Ultrathin displays (left) may fan sales of e-books like those developed by Sony and Philips 


Document BW00000020040511e05a0000e


More Like This

 Article 372 *******************    


Cool Companies 2004

Cool Companies 2004 How do you recognize cool? You know it when you see it--that's what we've maintained since launching the first list of Cool Companies in 1993. In the early 1990s, cool tech companies were those generating buzz; in the late '90s, we, like everyone, focused on youth. And this year? It's back to basics. 

Julie Schlosser 
394 words 
17 May 2004
Fortune
132
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

A few of the young companies featured ahead are making their mark by taking on basic needs like health and security. Quantum Dot turns cells into tiny Lite-Brites, aiding scientists (for more, see the following story, "Is Nanotech Ready for Its Close-Up?"); PhageTech is finding ways to make medicine by mimicking natural bacteria- killers called bacteriophages. iPass software allows companies to use Wi-Fi without fear, while Securify has helped keep the U.S. battlefield network in Iraq open to the good guys but closed to the bad. And what could be more basic than the desire to get rid of body odor? Check out Noble Fiber's efforts to do so using silver and cloth. 

Unlike the late 1990s, Red Bull--fueled twentysomethings no longer dominate Cool Companies. The starkest example: Paul MacCready, a 78-year-old aerospace legend who designs drone planes and is currently launching an airborne cell tower. 

To build the list, we screened more than 100 candidates submitted by venture capitalists, entrepreneurs, and other sources. Of course, if you're looking to invest, it's cooleat emptor: There's no way to know for sure which firms will be able to turn cachet into cash. Still, it'll be fun watching them all try. --Julie Schlosser 

See also 16 stories on pages 134-153 of same issueSee also additional image(s) in Table of Contents of sameissue. 

COLOR PHOTO: HOWARD CAO Quantum Dot NANOTECH COLOR PHOTO: CHRIS MUELLER (2) Lava Trading COMMUNICATIONS COLOR PHOTO: CHRIS MUELLER (2) Infinity BIOTECH COLOR PHOTO: GREGG SEGAL AeroVironment AERONAUTICS COLOR PHOTO: CHRIS MUELLER Ember SEMICONDUCTORS COLOR PHOTO: HOWARD CAO Securify SECURITY COLOR PHOTO: RUSSELL KIGHTLEY MEDIA Noble Fiber TEXTILES COLOR PHOTO: HOWARD CAO PhageTech BIOTECH COLOR PHOTO: SCOTT THODE Saegis BIOTECH COLOR PHOTO Brightmail COMMUNICATIONS COLOR PHOTO Mostitech SECURITY COLOR PHOTO: HOWARD CAO (2) PolyFuel ENERGY COLOR PHOTO: HOWARD CAO (2) Tensilica SEMICONDUCTORS COLOR PHOTO: TETSUYA MIURA Office Noa COMMUNICATIONS COLOR PHOTO: HOWARD CAO iPass COMMUNICATIONS 


Document FORTU00020040503e05h0000h


More Like This

 Article 373 *******************    


Cool Companies 2004

Quantum Dot NANOTECH

Nicholas Varchaver 
198 words 
17 May 2004
Fortune
134
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

Hayward, Calif. Founded 1998 

Call it the newest form of California hyphenate. But is Quantum Dot a nano-biotech or a bio-nanotech? Either way, the company manipulates molecules to make brilliantly colored crystals called quantum dots that can illuminate biological structures on a slide or- -in the future--in a body. The "dots" attach to the cells and light up different parts, creating wildly hued, paisley-shaped images that are valuable for diagnostic and drug-research purposes. Quantum dots are brighter and last dramatically longer than traditional evanescent fluorescent dyes, effectively enabling researchers to move from taking snapshots of cells to watching them in action. Such benefits have helped generate 1,000 customers and several million dollars in revenues for the company 18 months after its first product debuted. Co-founder and chairman Joel Martin, 47, a former radiology professor, is expanding the company into new areas, including a partnership to develop kits--akin to home pregnancy tests--that will let you check yourself for prostate cancer or heart disease. --Nicholas Varchaver 

See also introduction on page 132 of same issue 

COLOR PHOTO: HOWARD CAO TUBULAR Vials of nanocrystals


Document FORTU00020040503e05h0000i


More Like This

 Article 374 *******************    


Cool Companies 2004

Is nanotech ready for its close-up? The tiny science has inspired hundreds of startups and bigtime hype. So why are its accomplishments as prosaic as car moldings and pants? 

Nicholas Varchaver 
3,481 words 
17 May 2004
Fortune
153
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

You may not be able to see it, but you can't avoid its buzz. Nanotechnology is fast becoming as pervasive a cultural icon as TiVo or Levitra. The wizardry of building teeny things that are measured in one-billionths of a meter has begun to figure in Hollywood movies, in bestselling novels--even in Jay Leno's monologues. Nanotech has also inspired a dithyramb on the website of the ordinarily sober National Science Foundation: "Imagine a medical device that travels through the human body to seek out and destroy small clusters of cancerous cells before they can spread. Or a box no larger than a sugar cube that contains the entire contents of the Library of Congress. Or materials much lighter than steel that possess ten times as much strength." No wonder nanotech generated a $3.7 billion federal funding commitment in December. 

Nanotech has electrified the investing world too--so much so that in the past six months cautionary articles have appeared in the Washington Post, the Wall Street Journal, USA Today, the Baltimore Sun, Investor's Business Daily, the Boston Globe, and other publications. Each has called nanotech an emerging stock-market bubble and warned readers not to be swayed by the hype. You'd think investors would hesitate to give wild valuations to startup technology companies whose revenues are even more minuscule than their products. But many of us, it has become clear, have shorter memories--and stronger conditioned responses--than a lab rat. 

Of course, Wall Street professionals aren't exactly models of prudence and restraint either. Eager to catch the wave, Merrill Lynch announced--on April 1, fittingly--the creation of a nanotech stock index. Projected backwards, it showed that the stocks had risen 120% in the previous 12 months, compared with 31% for the S&P 500. Only 15 days later, Merrill overhauled the index. It turned out that nearly a quarter of the companies on the list weren't really in the business of nanotechnology--or at least so far as the companies themselves were willing to say in their public filings. 

And there, it seems, is the rub. While nanotech is unmistakably big, nobody seems to agree on what it is. That includes the practitioners and financiers of the tiny science, who vehemently disagree on its definition, or even its usefulness as a business category. Consider the view of venture capitalist Steve Jurvetson, of Draper Fisher Jurvetson in Menlo Park, Calif. A thin, enthusiastic 37-year-old, Jurvetson has pumped $88 million of clients' money into 20 nano and microtech startups, and is sometimes referred to as Mr. Nanotech. He describes nanotech as the next industrial revolution and predicts it will permeate every form of manufacturing. Yet he scoffs at the idea that the term is a meaningful way to classify a business. "Nanotechnology as a descriptive phrase is as absurd as 'incho-technology'--all the companies that build things on a one-inch scale get lumped in a bucket, right? It's just a laughable concept." 

Yes, nanotechnology is a realm rich in innovation--and in paradoxes. It is simultaneously a bubble and a puzzle. It is at once brand new and age old, with sales in the tens of billions of dollars or with no sales at all--depending on whom you ask. It inspires hype over its dazzling future, yet the hype has obscured its surprising-- though altogether more prosaic--accomplishments in the present. 

And here is perhaps the most striking paradox: Though nanotech is driving a wave of startups, many of its achievements are emanating from staid giants, the very companies that surges of innovation are supposed to leave behind. If you think nano is the preserve of nerdtrepreneurs, listen to Stan Williams, director of quantum science research at Hewlett-Packard: "The world's premier nanotech company is General Motors." Clearly, whatever it is, nano deserves a closer look. 

Nobody disputes the fact that a nanometer--to which the "nano" in nanotech refers--is one-billionth of a meter, or about 1/100,000 the width of a human hair. Scientists and engineers working at this scale have the ability to manipulate individual atoms and molecules. But beyond that, there are any number of diverging definitions of nanotechnology. Two are most common. What could be called the broad vision embraces any material or device that has features of 100 nanometers or less. The narrower definition is trickier: In this view something qualifies as nanotech only when manipulation at the nanometer level changes the physical properties of whatever is being manipulated in ways different from what would occur at a larger scale. It's where, as some scientists put it, Newtonian physics gives way to quantum physics. So under the stricter definition, shrinking a semiconductor part to 90 nanometers (as Intel now does) doesn't count. But using a laser to trap and position individual molecules (as a Chicago startup named Arryx does) would qualify. Arryx makes equipment to manipulate micro and nano particles. 

Among scientists in the field, the standard joke has become, Whatever I'm doing is nanotech, and whatever he's doing isn't. By the broad definition there are tens of billions, if not hundreds of billions, of dollars in nanoproducts on the market. Last year Intel alone sold $20 billion of Pentium 4 and other chips, all of which have circuit elements smaller than 100 nm. But if you use a more restrictive definition, well, that figure could be closer to $1 billion or $2 billion, or even zero for some hard-liners. "No one today is in a position to do nanotechnology," declares Eric Drexler, the theorist whose 1986 book, Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology, thrilled geeky readers with visions of self- assembling nanomachines and helped launch the field. "When I introduced the term," Drexler says, "I intended it to be applied to a capability that we wouldn't get to for decades, and indeed, we're not there yet." 

Still, however you define it, nanotech is becoming harder to view solely as something that won't turn up for decades. It's here now. 

Congratulations: the miracle of the future has arrived and it's ... stain-resistant pants? That's right. Today Levi's Dockers and Gap khakis employ nano-fibers, which bind to the cotton fibers in the fabric to create an invisible barrier that protects your slacks from the depredations of spilled red wine or coffee. 

There's more. Chances are your computer's hard drive has an IBM- designed nanocomponent known as GMR, which has dramatically improved memory performance. (GMR technology hinges on a nano phenomenon called the giant magnetoresistive effect; we'll spare you the details.) Running boards in some General Motors vans and SUVs have been bolstered with nanofillers for years; as of January, Chevrolet replaced the "rub strip"--the molding that protects car doors from other car doors--on the Impala with a nanocomposite version. L'Oreal blends liquid nanoparticles into face creams to help moisturizer penetrate deep into skin. And Eastman Kodak has begun marketing a digital camera whose viewscreen includes a nanocomponent. 

So that's what all the buzz is about? Instead of a cure for cancer, we get protection against being dinged in a parking lot? It seems absurd. Yet none of this is actually bad news. It's true that with few exceptions, nanotechnology has advanced only far enough to develop materials rather than more complex devices. And nanotechnology at present tends to consist of one nanomaterial or component built into a non-nano product. Says Sean Murdock of AtomWorks, a nano business advocacy group in Chicago: "Companies are doing the BASF model: We don't make things. We make things better." 

Incrementalism is a helpful lens through which to view the nanotech trend. It's an indication that we are, in fact, on a road that may--may--one day lead to the wondrous breakthroughs that are the stuff of National Science Foundation fantasies. But we might never get to cancer-curing nanobots if we hadn't developed stain- free trousers first. 

To see forward, it helps to look back. You could argue that today's nanotech is a step in a long evolution. "Advances in information technology have been going on for 100 and some years," says Tom Theis, director of physical sciences at IBM Research, "and it's all been about miniaturization." Like many of the scientists interviewed for this story, Theis seems more concerned with tamping expectations than with touting his work. "We were publishing papers at IBM on nano-structured materials in the 1970s," he says. "None of us in this field feel that there's anything fundamentally new here. It's the logical culmination of the long-term historical trends in miniaturization of many technologies." 

That doesn't mean there's not remarkable new value. It's just that nanotech didn't alight unexpectedly from another galaxy last week. Says Howard Berke, the chairman and CEO of Konarka, a nano startup in Lowell, Mass.: "It's really fulfilling the vision of folks like Albert Einstein and Thomas Edison," who long ago anticipated how the laws of nature might ultimately affect technology. The scientific principles haven't changed--only our ability to put them into practice has. Konarka itself is a perfect example. The company is applying nanotech to photovoltaics--the conversion of sunlight into electricity. Photovoltaics is more than a century old; Berke is quick to point out that Einstein won his Nobel prize not for his theory of relativity but for his work explaining photovoltaics. But only now is it becoming feasible to, say, fabricate otherwise ordinary roofing shingles that deliver electric power--one of Konarka's goals. The company makes nanocrystals coated with light-absorbing dye and embedded in an electrolyte; they can be layered onto plastics, foils, textiles, and other surfaces. Konarka plans to have its first product, whose applications include providing solar power for security sensors, on the market next year. 

For chipmakers like IBM's Theis and Paolo Gargini, director of technology strategy at Intel, nanotech is simply the next step in the progression of Moore's law. They see it not as an option for their industry but as a requirement. Chips are getting close to the point at which they no longer can be shrunk--not because circuits can't be manufactured at a smaller size (though cost does become increasingly prohibitive), but because the structures will stop behaving the way they do at larger scale. Electron leakage between adjacent circuits can pose problems, for example. 

In experiments, Intel has harnessed nano magic to overhaul an insulating layer in its Pentiums and other chips. By the weird rules of quantum effects, adding three molecules to a one-molecule layer makes it thicker--it prevents current from leaking--without actually taking up more space. Other chipmaking giants like IBM, Hewlett- Packard, and Motorola are working feverishly on their own solutions to similar problems. 

Startups are also racing to marry chipmaking and nanotech. With backing from venture-capital powerhouse Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Zettacore in Denver is developing prototypes of so-called molecular memory chips. Instead of storing charges in silicon, as traditional memory chips do, Zettacore plans to store them in nanostructures composed of porphyrin, a type of molecule found in natural substances such as chlorophyll. By contrast, Nantero, of Woburn, Mass., will store charges in arrays of carbon nanotubes. 

Those are two of some 1,200 nanotech startups in the U.S., according to the latest figures from the NanoBusiness Alliance. They range from Nano-Tex, which makes the stain-resistant fibers for pants, and Zyvex, a Texas startup that supplies tools, structures, and materials to nanotech companies, to nano-pharma companies like NanoCure, which is researching nano-scale cancer treatments, and bio- nanotechs like Quantum Dot (see preceding Cool Companies article), whose products have wide applications in medical diagnostics and drug discovery. 

The dazzle of the startups makes it easy to overlook the role being played by venerable giants. For example, nanotech has taken root at Cabot Corp., a $1.8-billion-a-year chemical outfit that is more than a century old. The Boston company makes carbon black--an ultrapure form of soot used as a pigment or reinforcing agent--and other substances. Over the decades Cabot has controlled the size of the particles that make up its chemicals with ever more precision, says Steven Reznek, vice president of R&D. "And in the past ten years," he says, "we've made nanoparticles." They are used, for example, to provide high-gloss coating on certain types of paper. 

Such grown-up companies bristle at the notion that creativity belongs to the young. Says Williams at Hewlett-Packard: "I go to conferences and hear, 'Of course, small companies are the ones that have the most innovation.' And I'm thinking, 'Oh, please.' " 

Strolling through HP's sprawling basement lab, beneath the preserved offices of the late founders William Hewlett and David Packard in the company's former headquarters in Palo Alto, the ponytailed Williams reveals what looks like a semiconductor clean room crossed with the lair of a mad scientist. Gleaming Rube Goldberg contraptions--which turn out to be things like a $500,000 scanning tunneling microscope that the HP scientists have customized themselves--are jammed everywhere. In the ceiling are rows of narrow pipes, built with bends to survive the motion of an earthquake, carrying an array of gases and chemicals. In the cubicles outside, some 30 chemists, physicists, and engineers trade ideas. 

Williams' team has made breakthroughs in both nanotechnology and computer design. They devised a system that uses infinitesimal wires in a "cross-bar" pattern in such a way that molecules trapped between the wires become the equivalent of a bit of memory and/or a switch in a logic circuit. Their computing design eschews some of the highly expensive precision required in traditional chipmaking by creating an architecture that can tolerate a relatively high percentage of defects and still function smoothly. It's all, in Williams's view, the result of fundamental research that happens mainly when scientists aren't constrained by the fickleness of venture funding or the need to come up with a product quickly--HP has been bankrolling this group for nine years. "I look around, and the vast majority of the small companies are just hyping themselves like crazy--which they've got to do to make it. But in point of fact," Williams continues, "most, if not all, of the real advances have come out of large corporate laboratories." The giants, Williams argues, have the resources, the patience, and the experience to turn those advances into products. He cites IBM's GMR nanotechnology as an example. Williams goes even further: "The best way to kill a technology is to put it in a small company, because most small companies wind up going bankrupt." 

General Motors is Williams's favorite example of how in innovation, size matters. GM's nanocomposites embody a unique combination of strength and flexibility. The company achieves that by altering the molecules of a clay so that it clings to an oil, which it wouldn't otherwise do. And though adopting nanocomposites for the trim on the Impala (and, as of May, on some Hummers) may not sound like much, GM plans to use 660,000 pounds of the stuff this year. According to Will Rodgers, a scientist at the company's R&D arm, GM will expand its use little by little in the next few years. "Right now we're dealing with trim. We'll be looking to move into the interior of the vehicle because there are some weight savings and some mass-saving opportunities. Eventually we hope to have exterior panels made from these materials." 

Another old-economy stalwart that has joined the nano vanguard is General Electric. In recent speeches CEO Jeff Immelt has cited nanotech, along with diagnostic medicine and renewable energy (both of which are likely to be heavily shaped by nanotechnology), as "three big trends we're investing in for the future." The company has built an R&D staff of nearly 50 scientists and engineers working full-time on nanotech. "When we started the group three years ago," says Margaret Blohm, an organic chemist who heads the team, "we were kind of concerned, between you and me, 'Is it really real?' " Now, she says, "nano looks like one that's here to stay." In the end of 2003, GE began selling plastic, used in automobiles, with nanofillers that will allow paint to bind more readily to it. Blohm's group is studying myriad other technologies with potential applications throughout the company. 

Nanotechnology is simply too important to be left to startups, says AtomWorks' Murdock. "This is going to be an innovation imperative for the FORTUNE 500 companies," he says. "Folks are going to have to know how to play in a world in which nanotechnology can have a very real impact on their competitiveness." And yet nanotech is often viewed through a much different prism. Complains Mark Modzelewski, who heads the NanoBusiness Alliance: "The nanotech race is getting caught up in the typical high-tech horse race aspects: judging it by venture-capital investments and the number of startups going public." 

What we have here, clearly, is a technology that has gotten way ahead of itself. That's what explains the startup craze, and it's more obvious still in nanotech's sudden star power. Pop culture-- which after all is the way most people learn about new technology-- loves nanotech, especially its scary side. Michael Crichton's bestseller Prey, which is being made into a movie, features self- replicating flying military nanobots run amok. The preternatural powers of The Hulk's title character come from a nanotech experiment gone haywire. 

Thrilling as the movies may be, they raise warning flags for business. With nanomachines still decades away, the specter of world domination by sci-fi-style nanorobots remains just that: sci-fi. But sensationalizing nanotech makes it harder to assess and manage whatever real risks the new technology may bring. 

Take carbon nanotubes. These versatile cigar-shaped molecular structures are used increasingly in semiconductors, structural composites, and many other applications. To the naked eye nanotubes look like ordinary soot--you can order the stuff on the Internet for $50 a gram. But NASA-sponsored scientists have found evidence that nanotubes can cause lung abnormalities in mice. Researchers at Southern Methodist University and Rice University recently linked another type of carbon nanostructure known as fullerenes to brain damage in fish. Last summer, the Environmental Protection Agency declared ominously, "There is a serious lack of information about the human health and environmental implications of manufactured nanomaterials." 

Will the growing use of nanotubes and fullerenes threaten workers or consumers? No one knows. But the uncertainties have already led some small environmental groups to oppose research on nanotechnology and to stage demonstrations outside labs. And if lab reports like those described above are treated as the dangers of nanotech rather than the dangers of a particular nanosubstance, nanotech companies, which so far have enjoyed the frisson of buzz attached to the word, could come to rue that moniker. 

That, of course, is the pessimistic view. There's abundant reason to believe, based on the unexpected ways it's already showing up in our lives, that nanotech will continue to progress. But it is unlikely to unfold the way we expect, because science never does. The real Eurekas, says IBM's Theis, tend not to be visible until long after they've occurred. "When the really big breakthrough comes," he says, "it will not be evident to more than a handful of people." 

Say what? "None of us in this field feel that there's anything fundamentally new here," claims a scientist. 

"The best way to kill a technology is to put it in a small company," says a research chief at HP. 

Pop culture--which is the way most people learn about new technology--loves nanotech, especially its scary side. 

FEEDBACK nvarchaver@fortunemail.com 

See also introduction on page 132 of same issue 

COLOR PHOTO: ELINOR CARUCCI--RICCO/MARESCA GALLERY NEW TECHNOLOGY, OLD challenge: L'Oreal blends nanoparticles into face creams to moisturize skin. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALESSANDRA PETLIN TOM THEIS OF IBM: Nanotech from his company's labs is already in your PC. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALESSANDRA PETLIN GE IS BANKING ON nanochemist Margaret Blohm and her 50-person R&D team. 


Document FORTU00020040503e05h0001e


More Like This

 Article 375 *******************    



Book Excerpt

In Praise Of Heady Growth; In a new book, Michael J. Mandel argues that many economists pay too little attention to tech-driven expansion 

By Michael J. Mandel 
3,118 words 
17 May 2004
BusinessWeek
76
Number 3883
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

The U.S. economy grew by 4.9% in the past year, the biggest gain since 1984. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up by 20% over the same stretch, while household wealth has surpassed its 2000 peak. And Americans have plenty of buying power -- consumer spending per person is up by 9% since 2000. 

Nevertheless, as the election season heats up, economists and politicians on both the left and the right are raising dire warnings about future prospects for the U.S. economy. Topping the list of reasons for distress: huge budget deficits, ballooning estimates of the future cost of Medicare and other entitlements, the flight of good jobs to India and China, and the burden of increased military activity abroad and security measures at home. 

Ultimately, we are faced with the question of whether to be optimistic or pessimistic about our economic destiny. Can the good times of the 1990s -- with its low unemployment, fast wage growth, and soaring stock market -- be repeated? Or was that era just a flash in the pan, the product of an out-of-control bubble mentality? Will we soar or struggle? 

Here's the straight answer: The ability of Americans to thrive during the next 10, 20, or even 30 years does not depend on the budget deficit or the potential exodus of a few hundred thousand jobs to other countries. Rather, our economic future is inextricably linked to our ability to come up with more technological breakthroughs that equal the Internet in magnitude. Such large-scale innovations drive growth, create new jobs and industries, push up living standards for both rich and poor, and open up whole new vistas of possibilities. This is what I call ``exuberant growth.'' 

How can we be so sure of this? The lessons of history and economic research are very clear. Over the long run, economic progress in a highly developed country such as the U.S. depends mainly on technological advances. It was a succession of innovations -- including electricity, telephones, radio, automobiles, and antibiotics -- that revolutionized life in the first half of the 20th century. By contrast, the drought of economically significant innovations in the 1970s -- including the unanticipated failure of nuclear power as a cheap energy source -- helped pull down growth. It is no coincidence that the rise of the Internet in the 1990s coincided with the biggest rise in household incomes, and the biggest drop in poverty, in 30 years. 

Going forward, such technology-driven growth is essential if we are not to drown in our problems. The Internet is terrific, but by itself it can't power long-term growth. Without cost-saving breakthroughs in medical science, it won't be possible to supply health care to a generation of aging Americans without bankrupting the young. Without new industries created by innovative companies, it won't be possible to generate enough good new jobs to replace the ones going abroad. Without breakthroughs in energy production and distribution, it won't be possible to provide inexpensive power for industrialized countries while supplying the energy needed to bring up living standards in the developing world. And without rapid growth, it won't be possible to simultaneously pay for national defense and the retirement of the baby boomers. 

Simmering Away 

The good news: It is rational to be optimistic about the next decade and the future beyond if we are willing to commit ourselves to innovation-driven, exuberant growth. All the ingredients are in place. There are plenty of potential technological breakthroughs simmering beneath the surface. To name just a few: wireless and broadband connectivity that could potentially revolutionize everyday life, solar power that could compete with conventional energy sources, biotech advances that actually cut health-care costs, nanotechnology -- building useful objects atom-by-atom -- that changes the nature of manufacturing and actually makes it cost-effective to produce things in the U.S. again, and space travel that is commercially viable. None of these new technologies is ready for prime time yet, but there's a good chance that at least one will be ready in the next 10 years. 

Another reason to expect strong growth is the expanding commitment to research and development and to education around the world. With more smart people working on new ideas, the global rate of innovation goes up -- and since ideas flow freely across national borders, the U.S. benefits as well. 

In the U.S. private sector, R&D spending as a share of gross domestic product was up sharply in the second half of the 1990s. And although private R&D spending has weakened a bit over the past couple of years, it's still near historic highs. In Asia, Chinese R&D expenditures now exceed those of any European country, while India is in the top 10 worldwide. At the same time, the number of college graduates has been rising in Europe and Asia as it has become clear that college is where people acquire the advanced skills necessary to prosper in a fast-changing world. 

The nature of the U.S. financial system, too, is a cause for optimism, giving the country a unique competitive advantage. Unlike its rivals, the U.S. has a set of well-developed private markets -- led by venture capital and high-yield bonds -- for funding cutting-edge research and fostering innovative startups and fostering new businesses. 

These capabilities of the U.S. financial system represent a major step forward. The essence of capitalism is how it raises and allocates capital. Today, the U.S. can quickly direct resources to areas of technological ferment. That sucks in new ideas and smart people from all over the world, accelerates technological change, produces jobs, and creates a competitive edge that other countries cannot match -- no matter how low their wages. 

The bad news: Enemies of growth are everywhere. Both on the political left and on the right, there is a profound discomfort with technological change. Liberals blame technology for creating inequality and unemployment. Deficit hawks fear that new medical technologies will mean bigger health-care bills. Environmentalists worry about the negative impact of genetically modified crops. Moralists fret that technology has opened the door to potentially immoral and corrupting activities such as human cloning and Internet pornography. 

Perhaps most surprising, economists, who should be the biggest fans of growth, have mainly ignored or dismissed the importance of technological change. Textbooks, popular writings, and public pronouncements by leading economists tend to focus on topics such as the budget deficit, savings, and taxes, while giving short shrift to technology, the economy's main engine of growth (box). The result is to undermine public support for R&D funding and other critical policies for innovation. In this sense, the economics profession is, unintentionally, an enemy of growth. 

Poor Stepchild 

It's also hard to find true friends of growth in either political party. Republicans and Democrats wrangle endlessly about tax cuts and budget deficits, even though there is little solid evidence that either has much effect on long-term growth. By contrast, technology-driven growth is the poor stepchild, receiving a microscopic amount of time, energy, and money from politicians. President Bush's latest budget calls for a decline in government funding for nondefense R&D in real terms over the next five years, according to a recent analysis from the American Association for the Advancement of Science. And reasonable proposals for accelerating the rate of technological change are mainly absent from either the Bush or Kerry Presidential campaigns. 

To put it another way, what might be called the Silicon Valley mentality -- favoring experimentation, innovation, and change -- faces a hostile climate today. Perhaps this shouldn't be a big shock. Exuberant, technology-driven growth is upsetting to the status quo -- and to the big companies and political donors that benefit from keeping things as they are. Technology represents a force for change that is profoundly threatening. 

Nevertheless, there is no doubt that innovation is absolutely indispensable for productivity, wages, jobs, and international competitiveness. Consider productivity: Over the past 50 years output per hour has risen at an annual average of 2.2%. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), investment in machinery, equipment, and other physical capital accounts for about 40% of those gains. Upgrades to the labor force -- including education and experience -- account for a further 10%. 

Where does the other half of productivity growth come from? Mainly technological and business innovation. Without it, the economy would be much smaller, standards of living would be much lower, and there would be fewer resources available for either the military or domestic priorities such as health care. 

In addition, periods of innovation have generally boosted wages for the poor and for the working class. In the early 20th century it was innovative industries such as automobile manufacturing that could afford to pay the best wages. Henry Ford boosted his factory's daily wage to $5 per day in 1914, when the going wage for factory workers was less than $2.50. More recently, the fast-growing tech sector led the way toward rapid wage growth in the 1990s. 

Job growth, too, is closely tied to innovation. Typically, big technological breakthroughs create new and profitable industries that need a lot of workers and are willing to pay good money. Indeed, it's possible to go down the list of industries published by the BLS and identify what past innovations led to which jobs. Perhaps 9 million Americans hold jobs making, selling, or servicing autos and airplanes. An additional 4 million are directly engaged in making high-tech equipment, selling it, or helping people deal with it. The list goes on and on. 

A big part of the weakness of the labor market today is that there hasn't been a new job-creating, technological breakthrough in the past few years. The tech sector is still recovering from the roller coaster of the 1990s, and no other leading sector has yet stepped forward to take its place. 

Moreover, it's hard to forecast which technology is going to be the Next Big Thing. There are plenty of candidates -- biotech, telecom, nanotechnology, energy, space -- but in each case tremendous economic potential is balanced out by equally daunting obstacles. Biotech has seen rapid scientific advances, but it has proved much harder and more expensive than expected to develop blockbuster products. The need for new energy technologies is obvious to everyone, but neither solar power nor fuel cells are yet economically viable. The commercial exploitation of space offers tremendous opportunities, but the cost of putting objects into orbit is still too high. And the telecom industry, while growing rapidly, is still suffering from regulatory and economic obstacles that have slowed broadband penetration and left the U.S. with a fragmented wireless system. 

Overcoming Obstacles 

Any one of these technologies is a long shot to become the Next Big Thing over the next 5 to 10 years. But unlike any other country, the U.S. can put substantial resources into all these areas at once -- funding research, startups, and new product development -- while absorbing the financial pain of failures. It's like putting down bets on more than one number at the roulette wheel -- the odds of at least one becoming a big success go way up. More than that, the flexibility of the U.S. financial system means any promising technology or product can get funding, even if it threatens existing companies. Once any of these technologies gets close to commercial viability, the resources will be there and its economic impact will be accelerated. 

But the triumph of exuberant growth over its enemies is not inevitable. Throughout history, the foes of innovation have often dampened technological change. As economic historian Joel Mokyr writes in his 1990 book, Lever of Riches: ``Technological progress is like a fragile and vulnerable plant, whose flourishing is not only dependent on the appropriate surrounding and climate, but whose life is almost always short. It is highly sensitive to the social and economic environment and can easily be arrested by relatively small external changes.'' 

To increase the odds in favor of exuberant growth, we need new goals for running economic policy -- and politicians brave enough to support them. First, we must encourage technological change by paying far more attention to encouraging basic and applied research, the formation of innovative new startups, and the development of a skilled workforce. Conversely, we need less debate about the budget and trade deficits, and more of an understanding that America's greatness has always rested on its ability to embrace technology and change. 

A different sort of macroeconomic policy is also needed. For the past 50 years, macroeconomists have focused on smoothing out the ups and downs of the business cycle. That's still paramount to avoid deep recessions. But technology-driven booms, like the one of the 1990s, should be encouraged. Although running the economy ``hot'' does carry dangers -- the possibility of a bust afterward -- the benefits of providing better conditions for innovation and risk-taking more than outweigh the downsides. 

But such growth-oriented policies are unworkable without an equally intent focus on providing more economic security as well. Rapid technological change is inherently scary to people, because it has the potential to destroy their jobs and overturn their way of life. Therefore, exuberant growth must go hand in hand with economic security. Fairness and transparency are crucial. If we want people to support technological change -- as investors, as workers, as consumers, as voters -- they must feel there is a level playing field and that no critical information is hidden from them. 

Next, we have to ease the pain for Americans who are hit by financial or technological turbulence. What's needed is some form of income insurance, which would go beyond unemployment insurance and offer protection against drops in income. One way to provide such protection is to modify the tax system to allow people to utilize income averaging over several years for tax purposes. Such a strategy means that someone who did well one year and poorly the next could average over two or three years and end up paying a lower tax rate. In 1997 the tax laws were changed to include such a provision for farmers, but it needs to be broadened to everyone. The result would be a big tax refund for people -- especially middle- or high-income taxpayers -- who lose their jobs or are forced to take a lower paying one. 

Above all, we must strengthen the safety net to allow Americans to support technology-driven growth without worrying that it will rob them of jobs and benefits. In particular, a fast-growing, exuberant economy can afford to provide at least a minimal level of health-care coverage for everyone. 

In this new world, a political coalition built around both pro-growth policies and policies promoting economic security and fairness is needed. The coalition will cut across party lines, encompassing all groups who benefit from technology-driven growth: investors with money in the stock market; educated managers and professionals who thrive in periods of rapid change; less-skilled workers who can ride a boom to a better life. 

Finally, and perhaps most important, we must embrace the exuberance brought on by new technologies and renounce the ethic that too much growth is bad for us. Exuberance is not a character flaw that has to be rooted out. Rather, it's the essential motive force for a technologically vibrant economy. 

Economists who thought that the U.S. economy had reached a mature state in the 1980s were proven wrong by the Internet and the technology boom. We do not know what lies beyond the next hill. It cannot be proven that there are new opportunities beyond the horizon. But embracing exuberant growth helps ensure that our children live not in the Age of Uncertainty but in the Age of Possibility. 

Adapted from Rational Exuberance: Silencing the Enemies of Growth and Why the Future Is Better Than You Think by Michael J. Mandel. Published by HarperCollins, May, 2004. Copyright 2004 by Michael J. Mandel. 


 (available online)
Economists vs. Technology

The economics profession, for the most part, underestimates the importance of technological change. Out of 53 economists who have won the Nobel prize, only four were honored for research on technology or innovation. And only 7% of the sessions at the January, 2004, annual meeting of the American Economics Assn. were devoted to the economic impact of technology.
   Many economists are skeptics when it comes to technology-driven growth, downplaying the role of technological change in their textbooks and policy pronouncements. They emphasize reducing the budget deficit, boosting savings, and changing the tax system rather than policy measures to boost innovation. Here's what some leading economists have written:

Alan Blinder, Princeton economist and former vice-chairman of the Federal Reserve:
   ``Nothing -- I repeat, nothing -- economists know about growth gives us a recipe for adding a percentage point or more to the nation's growth rate on a sustained basis.'' (1997)
   ``The notion that we are spending far too small a share of GDP on innovation is not really very plausible.'' (2003)*

Martin Feldstein, Harvard economist and current president of the American Economics Assn.:
   ``Increased capital accumulation...was the only determinant of growth that seemed susceptible to changes in economic policy.'' (1994)
   ``Even if the technical changes in information technology had not occurred, the pressures to raise profits and reduce costs would have led to a greater increase in productivity in the U.S.''  (2003)

Paul Krugman, Princeton economist and New York Times columnist:
   ``High technology is fashionable, and I think we are all obliged to make a deliberate effort to fight against fashionable ideas.'' (1991)
   ``Technology is not a magic elixir. The Internet, mobile phones, and all those things are exciting and important, but those who count on them to solve all their problems are likely to be disappointed.'' (2000)

N. Gregory Mankiw, Harvard economist and current chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers:
   ``While the productivity speed-up is a fortuitous development, its importance should not be overstated.'' (2002)
   ``The sources of strong productivity growth are hard to identify." (2003)

* From Economics: Principles and Policy, his textbook co-authored with William Baumol.
  

Michael J. Mandel is BusinessWeek's chief economist. His previous book, The Coming Internet Depression, came out in September, 2000. 

Illustration: Chart: WHAT DRIVES PRODUCTIVITY CHART BY ERIC HOFFMANN/BW 


Document BW00000020040513e05h0000p


More Like This

 Article 376 *******************    



Pirelli to Launch New Products In Optical Sector 

By Jennifer Clark Dow Jones Newswires 
452 words 
19 May 2004
The Wall Street Journal
B3C
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

MILAN -- Four years after the very profitable sale of its optical-components unit, Pirelli & C. SpA is pushing its way back into a different part of the optical sector with four products it hopes will help create another telecommunications boom. 

Pirelli's researchers say the new products will lead to a nonintegrated optical chip by 2005 that will make it possible for telecommunications operators to deliver broadband capacity to homes at a fraction of the current cost. 

Pirelli, a big Italian tire maker and Europe's largest maker of fiber-optic cable, hopes a new generation of high-profit-margin optical components will revive its unprofitable Telecoms Cables & Systems unit. Revenue problems at Telecoms Cables & Systems in 2002 pushed the entire group into a loss. While Pirelli returned to profit in the last quarter of 2003, it aims to turn around its Telecoms Cables & Systems unit to ensure profitability over the long term. 

With its new products, the company expects to boost revenue for its optical parts and systems to 150 million euros ($178.2 million) a year from about 7 million euros in 2004. If that happens, Pirelli estimates revenue at Telecoms Cables & Systems unit as a whole could rise fivefold -- to as much as 250 million euros in 2006 from 50 million euros this year. 

The four products launching this year are just one step in the long journey toward the super-fast integrated optical chip, which is something of a Holy Grail for the telecommunications industry, according to Giorgio Grasso. As the Cables & Systems unit's research-and-development director, Mr. Grasso was responsible for developing the optical-components business that Pirelli eventually sold to Corning Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc. in 2000 for $5.8 billion. That windfall gave Pirelli Chairman Marco Tronchetti Provera the cash to acquire Italian phone company Telecom Italia SpA. 

The high cost of hooking up consumers to fiber-optic networks has prohibited many users from taking advantage of the services these networks offer -- therefore making it hard for debt-laden telecommunications operators to recoup their billions of dollars in investment. 

But with optical chips, the cost of a gateway (a device telecommunications operators use when they sell high-speed Internet access) would fall to around $20 from $150. "If we are able to find a cheap way to bring superfast communications from the curb into the home . . . we'll create another bubble," Mr. Grasso said. 

Mr. Grasso and his team, working with scientists from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge, Mass., are using nanotechnology manufacturing to develop the optical chip and other parts. 

Document J000000020040519e05j0000b


More Like This

 Article 377 *******************    



Industry Insider: TECHNOLOGY

MEGA QUESTIONS ABOUT NANOTECH; Rice's Kristin Kulinowski on the thorny biological and environmental issues 

1,626 words 
31 May 2004
BusinessWeek
IM4
Number 3885
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

AN ECLECTIC BAND OF RESEARCHERS is mapping out a new frontier of science known as nanotechnology. Ranging from biologists to chemists, chipmakers, and computer scientists, they're learning how to guide individual atoms as they combine into molecules and how to make materials that don't exist in nature. Someday, their work may lead to novel cancer treatments and drug-delivery systems, ultrastrong lightweight metals, and superconducting wires, among many other applications. Yet before business rushes headlong into this nano-tomorrow, an assessment of the risks to public health and the environment is critical. Battles over genetically modified foods, after all, have tainted the whole field of agricultural biotech -- a technology that promises to improve food production in poor countries. In the same way, fears about potential hazards from nanomaterials could harm nanotech research if they aren't addressed early on. 

Kristen Kulinowski is uniquely positioned to sort fact from fiction in this nascent field. As a chemistry faculty member and executive director for education and public policy at the federally funded Center for Biological & Environmental Nanotechnology (CBEN) at Rice University in Houston, she believes that nanotech scientists are applying lessons learned from past failures. Years in advance of major commercial production, university researchers are testing nanomaterials on living organisms. Meanwhile, the Food & Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency are exploring regulations to help ensure that the commercialization of nanotech won't trigger any grim surprises. 

BusinessWeek Industries Editor Adam Aston recently met with Kulinowski in Houston to discuss both the risks and the anticipated benefits of nanotechnology. Here are some edited excerpts of their conversation: 

What worries you about the public's response to nanotechnology? 

I'm worried about an overreaction to both the hype and the fear. Every time a research article comes out talking about a certain type of risk, a dozen high-profile media stories ring alarm bells but fail to explain all the nuances of the study: that results need to be repeated, or that concentrations of nanomaterials used in lab studies are unlikely to occur in nature. This sort of alarmist coverage can affect lawmakers as well as the public. 

So one of my jobs is to help inform the science and policy communities in Washington. Likewise, reactions to positive stories can be overdone -- driving unrealistic expectations about miracle cures for diseases, or how soon new nanomaterials may be available. 

What are the real risks of nanotech? 

There are two broad categories of risk assessment going on right now. One is in biological systems -- starting with the effects on single-celled organisms on up to sophisticated animals such as vertebrates. For example, scientists are looking at how nanoparticles affect bacteria or how they accumulate in individual cells. The good news is we're finding some simple ways to control the degree of a particle's toxicity. This control means we can make the particle toxic only under certain desirable circumstances, such as when we want to cure a disease. 

There needs to be much more work done before we come up with a big picture. Relatively few multiyear studies have been completed. Some show that the body can process and excrete nanoparticles with no trouble. Others show that high concentrations of these particles can cause cellular damage. As in drug studies, the question is partly: How much is too much? 

The second major category looks at the environment. Do nanomaterials accumulate in water or the earth, and if so, do they pose a risk? Are they changing the balance of a water supply in terms of bacteria? If we're making lots of nanoparticles and they become part of the waste stream, what happens to them in the long run? It's really about sustainability. Can we engineer our manufacturing processes and these materials to have an environmentally benign life cycle from when they're made in the factory to when the products they're put in are discarded? 

Where does this discovery process stand? 

When it was founded in 2001, CBEN was the first major effort to draw attention to proactive, responsible nanotech development. Since then, the EPA, the National Science Foundation [which funds CBEN], and the Defense Dept. have come up with focused programs to study the impacts of nanotech from an engineering perspective. All these efforts are helping to create a community of scientists and engineers large enough to allow them to share their work and speed the learning process. We're basically spawning a new area of research. 

How does the evolution of nanotech compare with the growth of biotech? 

There's a good model to refer to in the human genome project. They anticipated that exploration of the human genome could result in thorny public concerns -- ethical, legal, and cultural. So they set aside 3% to 5% of federal research dollars to fund the study of these issues and to communicate with the public and encourage lots of openness and transparency. They were really our model for a proactive approach to technology development. 

Are there negative examples? 

Sure. There's the not-so-successful story of genetically modified foods and organisms. No matter how innovative they were, or good or bad, these new seeds were foisted on a public not convinced of their benefit. The agribusinesses certainly saw the benefit of these technologies -- to profit from more seed sales -- and they thought that was enough. Yet they didn't consider the public's perspective: Why as a consumer do I want these different kinds of seeds, especially if food is already relatively cheap and plentiful? 

The industry didn't do a good enough job conveying the benefits or listening to the public's concerns. What cropped up in the absence of that public dialogue was heightened concern over the risks. Now, sales of genetically modified foods are restricted overseas. Arguably, better engagement with the public could have prevented the backlash. This bad decision cost them billions in sales in Europe, at least in the short term. 

How long will it be before we see some of the advances that nanotech promises? 

That's hard to answer. It won't be overnight -- and that's important to keep in mind. The process of laboratory science is sometimes painstaking. But within three to five years we'll have a better understanding of how to coat or chemically alter nanoparticles to reduce their toxicity to the body, which will allow us to broaden their use for disease diagnosis and for drug delivery. Also within that time we'll understand better how to not have them gunk up the environment. We're going to see the first publications in this area in the coming year. 

What applications will come first? 

Biomedical applications are likely to be some of the earliest. In cancer therapy, the first clinical trials will be going on soon. ``Nano cures cancer!'' -- I can't wait to see that headline, backed up by a solid body of peer-reviewed science. The work of Rice professor Jennifer West involves injecting nanoparticles called nanoshells into the body, where they naturally concentrate in tumor sites because tumors are very ``leaky'' -- there's a lot of blood flow into nearby tissue. Since these particles can be tuned to respond to different wavelengths of light -- depending on their size -- they can be engineered to absorb a form of light that passes through healthy tissue but that can heat up the nanoshells to kill the cancer. 

What about new materials? 

Exciting stuff is happening there, too. Here at Rice, Richard Smalley [a 1996 Nobel laureate in chemistry] is scaling up production of single-walled carbon nanotubes. NASA is buying them to study for use in the space program because they're so strong and light. Smalley is interested in fine-tuning the production process so that each batch will produce only the type and size of tube needed for a particular application. If he can get this recipe right, there's evidence that single-walled carbon nanotubes would make excellent high-strength materials. But the processing technologies aren't easy. 

What sorts of environmental applications are being explored? 

Well, think about water. As my colleague professor Mark Wiesner likes to point out, right now we're using Victorian-era technology to clean and purify our water supplies. He's working on making nanostructured water-filtration membranes that could solve a lot of the world's drinking-water problems. These are basically filters with pores so small that you can let some molecules pass through -- say water -- while keeping out larger objects, such as bacteria. These sorts of membranes are made today using different materials, but nano-based materials may be more effective and ultimately cheaper. 

Another area is remediation of pollution. Rice's Michael Wong is working on nanomaterials that will harness the power of the sun to help break down volatile organic chemicals. So you could go into a Superfund site and throw some nanocrystals in the water, and the light would help break down the pollutants. 

Are we at a turning point? 

I'm hopeful. The area where nano does have the potential to live up to its hype in the short term is biotech. That's probably going to happen soonest. Yet we won't see radical, paradigm-shifting technologies for 3, or 5, or even 15 years. Overall, the wild hype is starting to die down. It has left in its wake a hunger for people to see real results. 

Photograph: Photograph: KULINOWSKI She heads a nanotech education and public policy center PHOTOGRAPH BY ROCKY KNETEN| Illustration: Illustration: Chart: Nano Push CHART BY LAUREL DAUNIS-ALLEN/BW 


Document BW00000020040527e05v00001


More Like This

 Article 378 *******************    



Science & Technology: Computing

Gunning For Speed; Japan still has the fastest supercomputers. But U.S. companies are closing in 

By Otis Port in New York, with Hiroko Tashiro in Tokyo 
2,882 words 
7 June 2004
BusinessWeek
132
Number 3886
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

JUST OVER TWO YEARS ago, Tokyo forced Washington to eat crow. A supercomputer funded by the Japanese government trounced America's mightiest computer. In fact, the Japanese machine, called Earth Simulator, packed more number-crunching speed than the top 20 U.S. supercomputers combined. 

For years, some U.S. supercomputing gurus had been warning that Washington's support of high-performance computing was too narrowly focused on the needs of the Pentagon's nuclear-weapons programs. Even acknowledging the U.S. strength in software, they warned that scientific research was being hobbled because U.S. supers were not designed to solve the really tough issues facing civilian scientists and engineers. Earth Simulator, built by Japan's NEC Corp., was proof positive of just how far behind the U.S. had fallen in scientific supercomputing. 

``I was stunned,'' admits Raymond L. Orbach, director of the Energy Dept.'s Office of Science, a major sponsor of academic research. What surprised Orbach and other scientists wasn't the raw speed of Earth Simulator. The Japanese had been describing their goals since 1997. The amazing thing was how superefficient it was, especially when running simulations of climate trends and fusion-energy generators 

On May 12, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham laid out a comeback plan. Tennessee's Oak Ridge National Laboratory will establish a new supercomputing center for open science and engineering. It will consist of two or three monster computers from Cray Inc. that will dwarf even the Earth Simulator. The Japanese system theoretically can whiz through an incredible 41 trillion calculations every second. In supercomputer jargon, that's 41 teraflops -- ``tera'' for trillion, ``flops'' for floating-point operations per second. 

Thomas Zacharia, head of computing at Oak Ridge, says his Cray hardware should come close to 40 teraflops by the end of this year, jump to 100 teraflops in early 2006, and hit 350 teraflops by late 2007. The result, he says, will be a ``major new tool for competitiveness.'' And unlike Earth Simulator, the Oak Ridge supers will be available to remote users through a high-speed network. ``We're already seeing strong interest from the aerospace, auto, and chemical industries,'' says Zacharia. 

Academic scientists who model the birth of stars and the origin of life may have the greatest hunger for supercomputing power. But supercomputers are used in a wide swath of industries, including finance, insurance, semiconductors, and telecommunications. Indeed, roughly half of the world's top 500 supers are owned by corporations. 

While the machines used by business today don't have the muscle to tackle the ``grand challenge'' problems in science, such as predicting climate change, they have become essential in developing better products and speeding them to market. Procter & GambleCo. even engineers the superabsorbent materials in its baby diapers with a supercomputer. Now, IBM and other suppliers are evolving designs that promise a new class of ultrafast supers and innovative software development tools. 

The U.S. may need the extra brawn. The Earth Simulator Center <(SK>esc) is nailing down a collaboration with Japan's auto makers to harness the super for automotive engineering and simulated crash testing, says ESC Director Tetsuya Sato. Even before Earth Simulator, there were signs that NEC's smaller supers, which weren't available in the U.S. until recently, were delivering potent competitive advantages. For example, many Japanese cars are noticeably quieter than American models. One reason: Japanese carmakers routinely run very sophisticated aerodynamic simulations that show designers where to make subtle refinements in body shape to reduce wind noise. 

Earth Simulator isn't the only threat. In computational biology -- using software to tackle problems ranging from medical diagnosis to drug discovery -- the U.S. has an even bigger handicap. In 2001, Japan's Institute of Physical & Chemical Research, known as Riken, built a special-purpose computer for such notoriously difficult jobs as simulating the function of proteins. Called the Molecular Dynamics Machine, it has a speed of 78 teraflops -- twice as fast as Earth Simulator. 

Why didn't Riken's computer ring alarm bells in Washington in 2001? Because special-purpose computers aren't highly regarded by most analysts -- they lack the versatility of general-purpose machines. Maybe they should take another look. In early 2006, Riken expects to unveil a far faster racer. Its cruising speed will be 1,000 teraflops, or 1 petaflops. While its main task will be elucidating the complex structure of proteins, Makoto Taiji, chief of Riken's biocomputing team, believes it will also shine in nanotech: designing materials atom-by-atom. All told, the National Energy Research Scientific Computer Center in Berkeley, Calif., figures many American researchers labor under a supercomputing handicap of 10 to 100 times. 

SEE HOW THEY RUN 

THERE ARE TWO basic approaches to supercomputer design. NEC's supers use a so-called vector architecture, meaning they have custom silicon processors for brains (box, page 134). These chips are specifically designed for the heavy-duty math in science and engineering. In contrast, virtually all U.S. supers do their thinking with ordinary microprocessors -- the chips found in PCs and video games. Until Earth Simulator came along, the U.S. was smug about this approach. Because commercial off-the-shelf <(SK>cots) chips are produced in huge volumes, they're much less expensive than NEC's chips. So when more speed is needed, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, or Dell can just ``scale up,'' lashing together 100 or 1,000 more chips -- the ``scalar'' approach. 

However, the peak-speed ratings of COTS clusters can be deceptive. When running the complex software used to tackle really difficult issues in physics, chemistry, and simulated crash tests of cars, COTS systems rarely eke out even 10% of their peak speed over extended periods. NEC's machines chug along at 30% to 60%. 

This dramatic difference in so-called sustained performance means that Earth Simulator isn't just twice as speedy as the current U.S. champ -- the ASCI Q from Hewlett-Packard Co. at Los Alamos National Lab, which has a peak speed of 20.5 teraflops. Factor in efficiency, and the Japanese computer can be 6 to 20 times faster, with one test indicating a 36-fold gain. And Earth Simulator pulls this off with fewer processors -- 5,120 vs. the 8,192 chips in ASCI Q. 

For most problems in business and nuclear weapons work, the COTS approach works great. But in cutting-edge research, vector software code can be the pacing factor in how long a task takes to finish. That matters because it can determine where new insights first trigger breakthroughs and inventions. 

Plowing new ground in science can involve programs that take days or even years just to run -- not counting the time to analyze results and revise the software for the next iteration. Before 1990, scientists trying to understand how proteins function would feed assumptions to a super, then wait a year to see the results. In the late 1990s, teraflops supers slashed each run to a day or two. 

With Riken's 78-teraflops super, it's only three or four hours, says researcher Taiji. On Riken's upcoming 1-petaflops brute, it may be just three minutes. A scientist who can screen a different protein model for its pharmaceutical potential every few minutes clearly stands a much better chance of finding the key to a new drug than a researcher whose computer takes half a day to spit out each answer. 

NATURE'S SECRETS 

WHEN IT COMES to demand for faster computers, there's no end in sight. Probing nature is like peeling an onion: Each successive layer poses harder questions. Today, supers have virtually become the table stakes for scientific discovery. Further progress in science doesn't rest only on the traditional interplay between theory and experiment, says Orbach. Simulations will be the ``third leg of the stool,'' he says. ``I'm a theoretical physicist, and there are some problems for which there aren't any theories. You can only understand that science through simulations.'' 

COTS technology was adequate for the ``grand-challenge problems that confronted science and engineering in 1995,'' says Suresh Shukla, manager of high-performance computing at Boeing Co. But today's toughest problems, he says, ``are not going to get solved efficiently on COTS machines.'' 

However, vector machines such as NEC's are expensive, with prices typically in the tens of millions of dollars. For the budget-minded, COTS is the ticket. Last fall, a cluster nicknamed Big Mac was unwrapped at Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University. It consists of 1,100 Macintosh G5 computers. Theoretically, it can wolf down 17.6 trillion instructions a second. That's almost 45% of Earth Simulator's capacity -- for 1.3% of its $400 million cost, a paltry $5.2 million. 

Clusters deliver more than low prices. What they do for ``time to insight,'' the research counterpart of industry's time to market, is incalculable. With their own little super, engineering and research teams can bid adieu to monthlong delays while waiting for access to a jumbo cruncher at a National Science Foundation supercomputing center. So questions can get answered sooner despite using slower computers. 

``There's another time-to-insight metric that needs to be considered: the time it takes to build an application,'' says William R. Pulleyblank, director of exploratory computer systems at IBM's Research Div. Writing soft- ware usually takes a lot longer than running it. If software development is accelerated because researchers can work with the same tools they use to write programs for PCs and workstations, it can offset even major differences in run times. In terms of the acceptance of COTS technology, the record speaks for itself, says David W. Turek, IBM's vice-president for deep computing. Since 1990, COTS clusters have been shoving Cray-type machines off the Top500 Supercomputer Sites list ( www.top500.org) compiled by Jack J. Dongarra, a senior scientist at Oak Ridge. By 1994, clusters accounted for over half of the world's speed demons. Last year, 95% were COTS systems. 

``Look,'' says Turek, ``computer architectures are driven fundamentally by economics. If I were to come out tomorrow with a really fast system, but you had to spend $500 million to buy it, there would be only one or two customers. That's not a business.'' 

Turek has a point, concedes Cray CEO James E. Rottsolk. ``This market is not large enough to support the research and development expense that IBM or HP would have to spend'' to sustain a separate family of vector chips. Worldwide sales of top-end supers have hovered around $1 billion a year for more than a decade, says IDC. 

The Energy Dept. division that supports classified research found COTS irresistible. In 1995, it launched the ASCI program to build a series of progressively faster clusters and leap from gigaflops to teraflops. The program's crowning achievement will be a 100-teraflops behemoth called ASCI Purple. IBM expects it to come online next year at Lawrence Livermore National Lab. 

Livermore researchers are itching to see what this Purple number-eater can do. ``For the first time,'' says Mark K. Seager, assistant head of terascale computing, ``we should be able to do a 'button-to-boom' simulation of a nuclear explosion.'' It may take several months to simulate the trillions of interactions that happen in just a few billionths of a second. But that's a breeze compared with running such a simulation on the Cray 1 that Livermore had in the late 1970s. With that super, recalls Seager, ``we figured it would take 60,000 years.'' 

Purple's reign could be brief. IBM and Livermore are also building a still beefier machine, Blue Gene/L. When this experimental system springs to life next year, it may spit out 360 teraflops. But Pulleyblank warns that this is by no means certain, because IBM does not have a computer big enough to verify the design of a system like Blue Gene, with 131,072 processors. 

If all comes together as hoped, Blue Gene may herald the start of a transition to the next generation of supercomputers -- systems that combine the benefits of both vector and COTS designs. Blue Gene's chips are turbocharged with a special ``pipeline'' that pretends to be a vector processor. 

Cray has developed a similar architecture, dubbed Red Storm, in conjunction with Sandia National Labs. The first such cluster -- a $90 million, 40-teraflops system -- will be switched on at Sandia this summer. And Oak Ridge will deploy a 20-teraflops Red Storm cluster, half of it by late this year. 

There is universal agreement that vector processing alone won't suffice for the petaflops computers needed to solve the next layer of grand-challenge problems. The software for attacking these issues is mushrooming in size -- and contains increasing amounts of the scalar code that COTS chips handle so effectively. Having both Cray's latest top-line machine, a Cray X1, and a Red Storm system under the same roof at Oak Ridge should provide valuable guidelines, Zacharia believes. 

Further out, the Pentagon's Defense Advance Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is sponsoring a contest to develop blueprints for petaflops systems with balanced vector/scalar performance to improve time to insight. Three companies are in the running: Sun Microsystems, IBM, and Cray. They'll deliver digital models of their designs by 2006. Then DARPA will hold a ``bake-off'' to eliminate at least one. The remaining one or two will get funds to construct a working prototype by 2009. 

Japan doesn't have anything like the DARPA contest under way, says Earth Simulator's Sato. But NEC has a new family of supers up its sleeve that could be announced within the next year. Barring a major surprise from NEC, the U.S. seems sure to regain the lead in supercomputers -- thanks in large measure to Earth Simulator. The wake-up call it delivered helped galvanize a fresh approach to supercomputing. The results promise untold rewards to both industry and science. 


 (available online)
Vector vs. Scalar

Here's how the two flavors of supercomputer chips differ:

Vector chips do rapid-fire processing of strings of related numbers, or vectors, common in scientific problems. The chips in scalar systems process numbers one at a time. Imagine that a computer is helping prepare dinner. A vector-chip chef would send you to the market to buy everything on the menu. But a scalar helper would tell you to go buy lettuce. Then it would send you back for meat, again for vegetables, and then for dessert. In business software, vectors are rare, so problems can be divvied up among many chips, and total speed ``scales'' with the number of chips. But the scalar technique isn't efficient when dealing with vectors, such as what happens to a car fender second after second in a simulated crash.



  


 (available online)
A Race for Flops...

Since 2001, Japan's supercomputers have left the U.S. in the dust

                                  PEAK SPEED
SUPERCOMPUTER                   IN TERAFLOPS**   LOCATION
MOLECULAR DYNAMICS MACHINE*         78           Institute of Physical &
                                                 Chemical Research (Riken)
GRAPE-6*                            64           University of Tokyo
NEC EARTH SIMULATOR                 41           Earth Simulator Center
HP ASCI Q                           20.5         Los Alamos National Lab
CALIFORNIA DIGITAL CLUSTER*         20           Lawrence Livermore
                                                 National Lab
APPLE CLUSTER                       17.6         Virginia Tech
DELL CLUSTER                        15           National Center for
                                                 Supercomputing Applications
IBM ASCI WHITE                      12           Lawrence Livermore National
                                                 Lab
HP CLUSTER                          11.6         Pacific Northwest National
                                                 Lab
LINUX NETWORX CLUSTER               11           Los Alamos National Lab

* Not ranked on the latest Top500 Supercomputer Sites. Riken's system was installed in 2001; University of Tokyo's in 2002
** Theoretical top speed in trillions of floating-point operations per second
Data: Riken, California Digital Corp.,  www.top500.org


...And Tera is Just the Beginning

Power needed to complete most complex task in one week

TASK                                 PEAK SPEED
AUTOMOTIVE DEVELOPMENT               100 TERAFLOPS
HUMAN VISION SIMULATION              100 TERAFLOPS
AERODYNAMIC ANALYSES                 1 PETAFLOPS
LASER OPTICS                         10 PETAFLOPS
Molecular dynamics in biology        20 PETAFLOPS
Aerodynamic design                   1 EXAFLOPS
Computational cosmology              10 EXAFLOPS
TURBULENCE IN PHYSICS                100 EXAFLOPS
Computational chemistry              1 ZETTAFLOP

(Note: A teraflops is a trillion floating-point operations per second. Peta and exa are 1,000 times faster and 1 million times faster. A zettaflops is 1 followed by 21 zeros calculations per second.)
Data: NSF, Energy Dept., NASA
  

Photograph: AERODYNAMICS A supercomputer aircraft simulation IMAGES COURTESY OF PROF. CHARBEL FARHAT, DEPARTMENT OF AEROSPACE ENGINEERING SCIENCES, THE UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO AT BOULDER| Photograph: CHEMISTRY Structure and behavior of a molecule COURTESY OF ACCELRYS| Photograph: BIOLOGY The anatomy of a protein COURTESY OF JAMSTEC/ESC| Photograph: GEOPHYSICS Simulation of air currents at 6.2 miles COURTESY OF IBM| Photograph: CRAY 1 Back in 1976 PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF CRAY INC.| Photograph: BLUE GENE A mock-up view PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF IBM| Photograph: 3-D HEART Computation of blood flow IMAGES COURTESY OF DAVID M. MCQUEEN AT NEW YORK UNIVERSITY| Photograph: DNA Making new discoveries is like peeling an onion COURTESY OF PROFESSOR JOHN M. ROSENBERG AND ARAHELA GRIGORESCU, UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 


Document BW00000020040603e0670000r


More Like This

 Article 379 *******************    



Up Front: MICROMANAGEMENT

Tiny Tech 

By Adam Aston Edited by Ira Sager 
114 words 
7 June 2004
BusinessWeek
14
Number 3886
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

What comes after nanotechnology? There are signs -- small ones, of course -- that some folks are prospecting the next tiny thing. Pico, femto, atto, zepto, and yocto aren't far behind. So-called Web squatters already own names based on a series of dimensions starting at one-thousandth of a nanometer, or 100-millionth the thickness of a human hair, including picotechnology.com, femtotechnology.com, attotechnology.com, and zeptotechnology.com. So what if a yoctometer is so small -- 1,000 trillion of them make up a nanometer -- that it's more imaginary than real? Same goes for the business plan of yoctotechnology.com. 

Document BW00000020040603e0670001q


More Like This

 Article 380 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: Special Report

SUPER COMPUTING; The race is on. Superfast computers are essential to high-level scientific research. Can the U.S. recapture the lead from Japan? 

By Otis Port in New York, with Hiroko Tashiro in Tokyo 
2,549 words 
7 June 2004
BusinessWeek
48
Number 3886
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Just over two years ago, Tokyo forced Washington to eat crow. A supercomputer funded by the Japanese government trounced America's mightiest computer. In fact, the Japanese machine, called Earth Simulator, packed more number-crunching speed than the top 20 U.S. supercomputers combined. 

For years, some U.S. supercomputing gurus had been warning that Washington's support of high-performance computing was too narrowly focused on the needs of the Pentagon's nuclear-weapons programs. Even acknowledging the U.S. strength in software, they warned that scientific research was being hobbled because U.S. supers were not designed to solve the really tough issues facing civilian scientists and engineers. Earth Simulator, built by Japan's NEC Corp., was proof positive of just how far behind the U.S. had fallen in scientific supercomputing. 

``I was stunned,'' admits Raymond L. Orbach, director of the Energy Dept.'s Office of Science, a major sponsor of academic research. What surprised Orbach and other scientists wasn't the raw speed of Earth Simulator. The Japanese had been describing their goals since 1997. The amazing thing was how superefficient it was, especially when running simulations of climate trends and fusion-energy generators 

On May 12, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham laid out a comeback plan. Tennessee's Oak Ridge National Laboratory will establish a new supercomputing center for open science and engineering. It will consist of two or three monster computers from Cray Inc. that will dwarf even the Earth Simulator. The Japanese system theoretically can whiz through an incredible 41 trillion calculations every second. In supercomputer jargon, that's 41 teraflops -- ``tera'' for trillion, ``flops'' for floating-point operations per second. 

Thomas Zacharia, head of computing at Oak Ridge, says his Cray hardware should come close to 40 teraflops by the end of this year, jump to 100 teraflops in early 2006, and hit 350 teraflops by late 2007. The result, he says, will be a ``major new tool for competitiveness.'' And unlike Earth Simulator, the Oak Ridge supers will be available to remote users through a high-speed network. ``We're already seeing strong interest from the aerospace, auto, and chemical industries,'' says Zacharia. 

Academic scientists who model the birth of stars and the origin of life may have the greatest hunger for supercomputing power. But supercomputers are used in a wide swath of industries, including finance, insurance, semiconductors, and telecommunications. Indeed, roughly half of the world's top 500 supers are owned by corporations. 

While the machines used by business today don't have the muscle to tackle the ``grand challenge'' problems in science, such as predicting climate change, they have become essential in developing better products and speeding them to market. Procter & Gamble Co. even engineers the superabsorbent materials in its baby diapers with a supercomputer. Now, IBM and other suppliers are evolving designs that promise a new class of ultrafast supers and innovative software development tools. 

The U.S. may need the extra brawn. The power of Japan's Earth Simulator ``will contribute to fundamental changes in every field,'' says Tetsuya Sato, director of the Earth Simulator Center (ESC). The Center is now nailing down a collaboration with Japan's auto makers to harness the super for automotive engineering and simulated crash testing, says Sato. Even before Earth Simulator, there were signs that nec's smaller supers, which weren't available in the U.S. until recently, were delivering potent competitive advantages. For example, many Japanese cars are noticeably quieter than American models. One reason: Japanese carmakers routinely run very sophisticated aerodynamic simulations that show designers where to make subtle refinements in body shape to reduce wind noise. 

NO ALARM BELLS 

EARTH SIMULATOR isn't the only threat. In computational biology -- using software to tackle problems ranging from medical diagnosis to drug discovery -- the U.S. has an even bigger handicap. In 2001, Japan's Institute of Physical & Chemical Research, known as Riken, built a special-purpose computer for such notoriously difficult jobs as simulating the function of proteins. Called the Molecular Dynamics Machine, it has a speed of 78 teraflops -- twice as fast as Earth Simulator. 

Why didn't Riken's computer ring alarm bells in Washington in 2001? Because special-purpose computers aren't highly regarded by most analysts -- they lack the versatility of general-purpose machines. Maybe the experts should take another look. In early 2006, Riken expects to unveil a far faster racer. Its cruising speed will be 1,000 teraflops, or 1 petaflops. While its main task will be elucidating the complex structure of proteins, Makoto Taiji, chief of Riken's biocomputing team, believes it will also shine in nanotech: designing materials atom-by-atom. All told, Horst D. Simon, director of the National Energy Research Scientific Computer Center in Berkeley, Calif., figures many American researchers labor under a supercomputing handicap of 10 to 100 times. 

There are two basic approaches to supercomputer design. NEC's supers use a so-called vector architecture, meaning they have custom silicon processors for brains (box, page 52). These chips are specifically designed for the heavy-duty math in science and engineering. In contrast, virtually all U.S. supers do their thinking with ordinary microprocessors -- the chips found in PCs and video games. Until Earth Simulator came along, the U.S. was smug about this approach. Because commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) chips are produced in huge volumes, they're much less expensive than NEC's chips. So when more speed is needed, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, or Dell can just ``scale up,'' lashing together 100 or 1,000 more chips -- the ``scalar'' approach. 

However, the peak-speed ratings of COTS clusters can be deceptive. When running the complex software used to tackle really difficult issues in physics, chemistry, and simulated crash tests of cars, COTS systems rarely eke out even 10% of their peak speed over extended periods. NEC's machines chug along at 30% to 60%. 

This dramatic difference in so-called sustained performance means that Earth Simulator isn't just twice as speedy as the current U.S. champ -- the ASCI Q from Hewlett-Packard Co. at Los Alamos National Lab, which has a peak speed of 20.5 teraflops. Factor in efficiency, and the Japanese computer can be 6 to 20 times faster, with one test indicating a 36-fold gain. And Earth Simulator pulls this off with fewer processors -- 5,120 vs. the 8,192 chips in ASCI Q. 

For most problems in business and nuclear weapons work, the COTS approach works great. But in cutting-edge research, vector software code can be the pacing factor in how long a task takes to finish. That matters because it can determine where new insights first trigger breakthroughs and inventions. 

Plowing new ground in science can involve programs that take days or even years just to run -- not counting the time to analyze results and revise the software for the next iteration. Before 1990, scientists trying to understand how proteins function would feed assumptions to a supercomputer, then wait a year or so to see the results. In the late 1990s, teraflops supers slashed each run to a day or two. 

With Riken's 78-teraflops super, it's only three or four hours, says researcher Taiji. On Riken's upcoming 1-petaflops brute, it may be just three minutes. A scientist who can screen a different protein model for its pharmaceutical potential every few minutes clearly stands a much better chance of finding the key to a new drug than a researcher whose computer takes half a day or more to spit out each answer. 

NATURE'S SECRETS 

WHEN IT COMES to demand for faster computers, there's no end in sight. Probing nature is like peeling an onion: Each successive layer poses harder questions. Today, supers have virtually become the table stakes for scientific discovery. Further progress in science doesn't rest only on the traditional interplay between theory and experiment, says Orbach. Simulations will be the ``third leg of the stool,'' he says. ``I'm a theoretical physicist, and there are some problems for which there aren't any theories. You can only understand that science through simulations.'' 

COTS technology was adequate for the ``grand-challenge problems that confronted science and engineering in 1995,'' says Suresh Shukla, manager of high-performance computing at Boeing Co. But today's toughest problems, he says, ``are not going to get solved efficiently on COTS machines.'' 

However, vector machines such as NEC's are expensive, with prices typically in the tens of millions of dollars. For the budget-minded, COTS is the ticket. Last fall, a cluster nicknamed Big Mac was unwrapped at Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University. It consists of 1,100 Macintosh G5 computers from Apple Computer Co. Theoretically, it can wolf down 17.6 trillion instructions a second. That's almost 45% of Earth Simulator's capacity -- for 1.3% of its $400 million cost, a paltry $5.2 million. 

Clusters deliver more than low prices. What they do for ``time to insight,'' the research counterpart of industry's time to market, is incalculable. With their own little super, engineering and research teams can bid adieu to monthlong delays while waiting for access to a jumbo cruncher at a National Science Foundation supercomputing center. So questions can get answered sooner despite using slower computers. 

``There's another time-to-insight metric that needs to be considered: the time it takes to build an application,'' says William R. Pulleyblank, director of exploratory computer systems at IBM's Research Div. Writing software usually takes a lot longer than running it. If software development is accelerated because researchers can work with the same tools they use to write programs for PCs and workstations, it can offset even major differences in run times. 

In terms of the acceptance of COTS technology, the record speaks for itself, says David W. Turek, IBM's vice-president for deep computing. Since 1990, COTS clusters have been shoving Cray-type machines off the Top500 Supercomputer Sites list ( www.top500.org) compiled by Jack J. Dongarra, a senior scientist at Oak Ridge. By 1994, clusters accounted for over half of the world's speed demons. Last year, 95% were COTS systems. 

``Look,'' says Turek, ``computer architectures are driven fundamentally by economics. If I were to come out tomorrow with a really fast system, but you had to spend $500 million to buy it, there'd be only one or two customers. That's not a business.'' 

Turek has a point, concedes Cray CEO James E. Rottsolk. ``This market is not large enough to support the research and development expense that IBM or HP would have to spend'' to sustain a separate family of vector chips. Worldwide sales of top-end supers have hovered around $1 billion a year for more than a decade, says International Data Corp. 

The Energy Dept. division that supports classified research found COTS irresistible. In 1995, it launched the ASCI program to build a series of progressively faster clusters and leap from gigaflops to teraflops. The program's crowning achievement will be a 100-teraflops behemoth called ASCI Purple. IBM expects it to come online next year at Lawrence Livermore National Lab. 

Livermore researchers are itching to see what this Purple number-eater can do. ``For the first time,'' says Mark K. Seager, assistant head of terascale computing, ``we should be able to do a 'button-to-boom' simulation of a nuclear explosion.'' It may take several months to simulate the trillions of interactions that happen in just a few billionths of a second. But that's a breeze compared with running such a simulation on the Cray 1 that Livermore had in the late 1970s. With that super, recalls Seager, ``we figured it would take 60,000 years.'' 

Purple's reign could be brief. IBM and Livermore are also building a still beefier machine, Blue Gene/L. When this experimental system springs to life next year, it may spit out 360 teraflops. But Pulleyblank warns that this is by no means certain, because IBM does not have a computer big enough to verify the design of a system as complex as Blue Gene, with 131,072 processors. 

If all comes together as hoped, Blue Gene may herald the start of a transition to the next generation of supercomputers -- systems that combine the benefits of both vector and COTS designs. Blue Gene's chips are turbocharged with a special ``pipeline'' that pretends to be a vector processor. 

Cray has developed a similar architecture, dubbed Red Storm, in conjunction with Sandia National Labs. The first such cluster -- a $90 million, 40-teraflops system -- will be switched on at Sandia this summer. And Oak Ridge will deploy a 20-teraflops Red Storm cluster, half of it by late this year. 

There is universal agreement that vector processing alone won't suffice for the petaflops computers need to solve the next layer of grand-challenge problems. The software for attacking these issues is mushrooming in size -- and contains increasing amounts of the scalar code that COTS chips handle so effectively. Having both Cray's latest top-line machine, a Cray X1, and a Red Storm system under the same roof at Oak Ridge should provide valuable guidelines, Zacharia believes. 

Further out, the Pentagon's Defense Advance Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is sponsoring a contest to develop blueprints for petaflops systems with balanced vector/scalar performance to improve time to insight. Three companies are in the running: Sun Microsystems, IBM, and Cray. They'll deliver digital models of their designs by 2006. Then DARPA will hold a ``bake-off'' to eliminate at least one. The remaining one or two will get funds to construct a working prototype by 2009. 

Does Japan have anything like the DARPA contest under way? ``Unfortunately, no,'' says Earth Simulator's Sato. He has ideas for an optimized architecture that blends vector and scalar features, he adds. ``But we haven't got any funds for it.'' That doesn't mean the U.S. can relax. NEC has a new family of supers up its sleeve that could be announced within the next year. But details are still ``a corporate secret,'' says NEC Vice-President Tadashi Watanabe. 

But barring a major surprise from NEC, the U.S. seems sure to regain the lead in supercomputers -- thanks in large measure to Earth Simulator. The wake-up call it delivered helped galvanize a fresh approach to supercomputing. The results promise untold rewards to both industry and science. 

Photograph: 3-D HEART Computation of blood flow COURTESY OF CHARLES S. PESKIN AND DAVID M. MCQUEEN AT NEW YORK UNIVERSITY| Photograph: DAVID W. TUREK, IBM VICE-PRESIDENT OF DEEP COMPUTING PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS KLEIMAN| Photograph: DNA Making new discoveries is like peeling an onion IMAGE COURTESY OF ARABELA GRIGORESCU AND JOHN M. ROSENBERG, UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH| Photograph: EARTH SIMULATOR The Japanese machine to beat PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF JAMSTEC/ESC| Photograph: TETSUYA SATO, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF EARTH SIMULATOR COURTESY OF JAMSTEC/ESC 


Document BW00000020040603e0670002b


More Like This

 Article 381 *******************    



Technology Journal

Chip Firms Seek a National Institute 

By Don Clark 
409 words 
10 June 2004
The Wall Street Journal
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

U.S. chip makers said they will push for the creation of a national institute to search for solutions to a significant technical roadblock that looms in 15 to 20 years. 

The Semiconductor Industry Association said it will seek federal assistance to help create and fund a Nanoelectronics Research Institute, which would direct and coordinate a "massive" research effort to help assure U.S. leadership as chip makers shift to fundamentally new production techniques. 

Separately, the SIA increased its forecast for revenue growth in the recovering chip industry this year. It estimates that total sales will grow 29% to $213.9 billion, up from a prior forecast of 19%. SIA President George Scalise cited strong demand for products such as cellular phones, personal computers and digital cameras, particularly in emerging markets such as China. 

Since the 1950s, makers of semiconductors have managed to keep shrinking transistors and other electronic components to improve chips' calculating power and storage capacity. That pace of progress, doubling chip performance every one to two years, is often called Moore's law, after Intel Corp. co-founder Gordon Moore. 

Some researchers have predicted that technical problems would slow or halt Moore's law as transistors begin to approach the size of individual atoms. The SIA pronouncement, at a gathering in Redwood City, Calif., represents a growing consensus that manufacturers have until about 2020 to adapt. 

"We are at an inflection point," said John E. Kelly III, a senior vice president and group executive of International Business Machines Corp.'s technology Group. "Shrinking technology is simply not enough." 

The proposed institute would be a joint effort of the chip industry, academia and government, the SIA said. Researchers from universities and companies would be charged with identifying and testing new production materials and techniques, which would replace today's transistors. 

After a few years, the effort would be likely to set up two or three research centers, perhaps at universities, Mr. Kelly said. Besides funds from SIA members, the company hopes to obtain federal funding, possibly from money now earmarked for research in nanotechnology, which involves the manipulation of tiny materials. 

Mr. Kelly estimated that the effort would require "single-digit" millions of dollars in annual government funding initially, possibly growing to more than $100 million. The SIA plans to stress the role that electronics progress plays in U.S. economic strength and defense, he said. 

Document J000000020040610e06a0000y


More Like This

 Article 382 *******************    


Features/FORTUNE Industrial MAnagement & Technology

Seeing Nanoscapes A family of tools for seeing and manipulating atoms and molecules is moving out of the lab and onto the factory floor. 

Ivan Amato 
3,375 words 
14 June 2004
Fortune
174G [Not Available In All Editions]
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

One summer day in 1985, not that long before he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics for a device he had invented five years earlier for seeing atoms, known as a scanning tunneling microscope, IBM scientist Gerd Binnig was lying on a sofa in a Palo Alto apartment staring up at a cheap, stucco-like ceiling. As he lounged there, he imagined each bump on the ceiling as an atom. What followed was an "Aha!" moment that continues to reverberate through the scientific and business worlds. 

Within weeks Binnig, then 38 and with an infant daughter, worked with a colleague to build a prototype for what has become one of the most versatile scientific tools ever created: the atomic force microscope, or AFM. A few years later the first commercially available version went on sale. AFMs have since helped propel the science and engineering of nanotechnology to what many now view as a latter-day industrial revolution. 

Scientists and engineers today are using AFMs to view just about everything they can lay their hands on--biological cells, chemical catalysts, computer chips, even sunscreen agents and textiles. All that is driving a potentially huge new industry. The National Science Foundation projects that nanotechnology, which refers both to the know-how to exploit the properties of atomic-and molecular- scale structures and to the products made from them, will constitute a $1-trillion-a-year megamarket by 2015. By comparison, semiconductor sales last year amounted to $166 billion. 

One trillion dollars is an enormous number, yet experts believe that nanotech is destined to transform everything from medicine and electronics to transportation and pollution control. "Eventually all of industry is in its path," says Ed Braun, chairman and CEO of Veeco Instruments in Woodbury, N.Y., the world leader in AFMs. At Pacific Nanotechnology, a smaller AFM maker in Santa Clara, Calif., vice president Paul West says, "We have customers using our AFMs to look at rubber tires and paper and razor blades." 

Plenty of companies are investing increasing amounts in nanotechnology R&D, but the foundation for this growth is being laid by multibillion-dollar government-sponsored nanotechnology projects around the world, including a $3.7 billion, four-year program in the U.S. They are designed in part to underwrite purchases of AFMs and other big-ticket tools by government and academic research laboratories. At the same time, a potentially vast new crop of customers in industry sectors ranging from aerospace to information technology have begun buying AFMs to help them improve and control manufacturing processes. All told, the AFM market now approaches $200 million. BCC, a technology market analysis firm in Norwalk, Conn., estimates that demand will grow at an average annual rate of more than 22% through 2008. Supporters believe that examining products on atomic and molecular scales--the nanoscale--will reveal technical clues that ultimately will give them a competitive edge. It might be possible to make a tougher, longer-lasting tire, for example, by discovering some nanoscale surface property in the carbon black used to toughen the rubber. 

The roots of nanotechnology are often traced to a seminal lecture in 1959 by Nobel physicist Richard Feynman on the future of miniaturization in manufacturing. But only in the 1980s did the field start to take on an air of genuine possibility, when tools like the AFM gave scientists unprecedented access to both viewing and manipulating the tiny atomic and molecular building blocks that make up all physical things. A single strand of DNA spans about two nanometers, or two-billionths of a meter, while a red blood cell measures about 5,000 nanometers and a strand of hair about 75,000 nanometers. 

Nanotechnology is already here-and-now in the data-reading heads of computer hard drives. They rely on a property called giant magnetoresistance, which makes the head supersensitive to the tiny magnetic signals associated with each bit of data. To create the heads, manufacturers must deposit a dozen or more exquisitely thin layers--some only a nanometer or so thick--of different materials in a precise sequence. Another current application is computer chips, whose transistors are made with features that measure 90 nanometers across, roughly one-hundredth the span of the smallest visible dust speck. In the future, claim some visionaries, are cell-repairing nanomachines and pocket-sized data-storage devices that will be capable of carrying the text of every book ever written. 

AFMs are to nanotechnology what microscopes have always been to biology--they extend researchers' vision to previously unseeable dimensions. Instead of relying on light and lenses, however, AFMs generate images using what amounts to a tiny, stylus-like probe. It assembles a picture of a molecular or even atomic landscape by using what is effectively a scaled-down sense of touch. Sitting in the lab, most AFMs resemble ordinary tabletop microscopes, though they often are in specialized housings that isolate them from acoustic and other mechanical vibrations that would make seeing atoms impossible. Rather than peer through an eyepiece, users watch a screen as a computer makes visual sense of the signals coming from the AFM's ultrasharp tip. 

Just as carpenters are well advised to measure carefully before they cut, nanotechnologists need to precisely measure their sub- Lilliputian parts and products to make sure they're actually producing what they've set out to make. "For manufacturing to exploit nanotechnology, you need measurement tools that can work on those scales," says Joseph Stroscio of the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Gaithersburg, Md. That's where he has built one of the world's most advanced scanning tunneling microscopes, a kind of device that set the stage for AFMs. Not for sale, Stroscio's device serves as a test-bed for pushing nanoscale measurement and manipulation techniques forward so that industry will be prepared when it needs those abilities. 

To date, about 20 companies have sprung up to manufacture AFMs. Veeco is the giant among them. It sold some $120 million worth of AFMs last year, accounting for roughly two-thirds of the world market. Most sales have been to scientists doing basic research, but at least 10% of the company's units have been going to quality- control specialists, process engineers, and others who work on factory floors in industries that include semiconductors, data storage, and display technologies. A typical mid-range AFM research system sells for between $100,000 and $200,000, while newer factory- floor systems range up to $2 million each. Of an estimated total of 10,000 AFMs, Veeco claims responsibility for more than 7,000. 

Veeco also makes equipment for depositing and analyzing nanoscale layers of various materials on wafers for making computer chips, light-emitting diodes, and other devices. Last year it lost $9.7 million, but its AFM business always has been profitable, Braun says. He notes that his company's AFM sales have quadrupled from $30 million in 1998, and he expects them to reach $400 million within five years. Propelled in part by its AFM success, Veeco stock has shot up about a third in the past 12 months. 

Demand for AFMs is driven by government spending and research investments by companies like the Dows and DuPonts of the world, whose business plans are rife with nanotechnology. A still largely untapped yet vast market for the AFM industry, say Braun and others, is manufacturers that need tools to see and manipulate atoms and molecules to monitor and control nanomanufacturing processes. Intel, Samsung, IBM, and Toshiba have been buying AFMs to measure critical nanoscale features of raw silicon wafers and their microcircuitry. 

The size of defects that can wreck chips keeps shrinking; that means the level of wafer perfection has to go up. One vision of the chipmaking future is to have AFMs on the factory floor, so that every wafer goes through an AFM system to check the surface quality. Of the 80 to 100 AFM systems that Veeco ships per quarter, ten to 15 of their new, high-end, online models go to semiconductor companies. 

The principle behind all those AFMs derives from Binnig's stucco- staring moment in 1985. That spark of innovation had actually been kindled about five years earlier, when Binnig, along with Heinrich Rohrer, a senior colleague at IBM's Zurich Research Laboratory, bowled over the science world with their invention of the scanning tunneling microscope, the precursor to the AFM. Like no instrument before it, the scanning tunneling microscope enabled scientists to visualize the world all the way down to its very atoms. So scientifically powerful was it that it took a mere five years for Binnig and Rohrer to win a Nobel Prize for its invention. 

But tunneling microscopes had an Achilles' heel that nagged Binnig: They could examine only samples that were electrically conductive. If the sample wasn't a metal or a semiconductor like silicon, it couldn't be seen. The reason is that the microscopes work by means of a so-called tunneling current--a trickle of electrons that flows, via quantum-mechanical processes, through the tiny space between the microscope's supersharp tip and the underlying sample. As the tip scans back and forth over the sample's nanoscape like a blind man wielding a walking stick, the tunneling current fluctuates. It increases when the tip is close to the conductive surface and decreases when it is farther way. A computer tracks the changes and recasts the raw electrical data into a map of the sample's atomic landscapes. Image-processing programs then massage these maps into often arrestingly beautiful steps, corrugations, and egg-carton moguls reminiscent of fantastic topographies seen in National Geographic photos. 

For the scientific community, the images were portals to discovery. "Anytime you can create images on that scale and look at things at those dimensions, it is as new a world as Mars is," says Michael Myrick, associate director of science at the University of South Carolina's Nanocenter in Columbia. What Binnig and many other scientists craved in the mid-1980s was a similar instrument that would work on insulators, biological cells, and pretty much anything else. In that way the new luxury of visualizing atoms--which physicists were doing in their studies of silicon wafers, superconductors, metals, and other conductive solids--could be extended to the rest of the scientific community. 

With that in mind, Binnig envisioned a stylus dragging up and down over the stucco bumps, physically deflecting as it parried with the surface's ups and downs. He knew instantly that if such an instrument could be built, it could render an atomic-scale image of just about any surface, not just electrically conductive ones. In a flash, he had figured out the basic design of the atomic force microscope. 

In a matter of weeks Binnig teamed up with his IBM colleague Christoph Gerber and Stanford University collaborator Calvin Quate to work out the new tool's operation, and Gerber built the first prototype. As word of the new tool began to spread in the scientific community, many researchers hungry for nanoscale visualization began trying to make AFMs of their own. By 1987 two of those scientists had founded Digital Instruments; two years after that they introduced the first commercial AFM, called the Nanoscope. 

Whether homemade or purchased, the first AFMs were far from easy to operate. "In those days the AFM was not a tool you used in your research; it was your research," says Myrick. "You had to be an artist to use one." Myrick learned the hard way: When he first got his hands on an AFM in 1989, he tried creating images of DNA molecules with enough clarity to directly read their genetic codes. The experiment failed because the instruments were too crude to see subtle differences between similar molecules. 

Although in theory the first AFMs could be used to image atoms, in fact only imaging of larger molecule-scale objects was possible. It took until the early 1990s and a series of incremental developments before the instruments could produce atomic-resolution images. They included improvements in tip design, motion control for the probe, and reduction in vibration from the building and even from sounds in the laboratory. That's about when sales at Digital Instruments began to take off and when a number of other companies began to enter the business. 

What has made the AFM a darling among nanoresearchers is its chameleon nature. By changing the design of the tip and the patterns of scanning motions, a single instrument can be made into multiple instruments (collectively known as scanning probe microscopes, or SPMs) for mapping many physical properties--including magnetism, frictional traits, and electrical charges--at nanoscales. It's akin to the way you might use all of your senses to see how colors, shapes, aromas, tastes, wetness, dryness, heat, texture, and other features are distributed on your dinner table. 

Consider the most basic AFM operation, known as contact mode. Somewhat like sweeping a finger over Braille writing, the technique discerns the nanoscapes of an underlying sample. Buy a probe whose tip is coated with a magnetic material, however, and you have yourself a magnetic force microscope that maps out a surface's magnetic field, molecular patch by molecular patch. That's handy if you're in the data-storage industry and you want to take a close look at some surface flaws that have been ruining your disks. Substitute a metal-coated silicon tip, and your AFM becomes an electrostatic force microscope in which the probe deflects in response to electric fields. That's good for mapping locations in a chip's microcircuitry that could be prone to failure. 

"The last count I saw, there were 20 or so different [scanning modes]," says Clayton Teague. He directs the National Nanotechnology Coordinating Office, which serves as the hub for government- sponsored nanotechnology programs sprinkled throughout agencies such as the National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy. He adds, "As the critical dimensions of various technologies decrease to the tens of nanometers range, the need to bring SPMs in to be the workhorses of inspection is going to go up." 

Even as Veeco and other AFM companies strive to push their instruments into manufacturing settings, they are expanding the ways the tools can engage the nanoworld. AFMs now are used as conduits not just for "feeling" atomic and molecular landscapes but for sculpting them and for writing on them. The tools can serve as fingers for making nanoscale structures, perhaps quantum dots for holding bits of data in tinier spaces, or for "feeling" when a candidate drug molecule docks into a specific cellular receptor associated with cancer or another disease. 

Veeco, for example, now offers AFMs packaged with a nanowriting technology developed by Chad Mirkin, a Northwestern University researcher who formed a company called NanoInk in 2001. With modified probes and specialized molecular inks, AFM systems also become tools for literally writing on the nanoscale or, more likely, for spot applications of materials to repair the tiny lines on the photo masks used to make chips. 

In another innovation of as yet undetermined value, Pacific Nanotechnology offers a force feedback system made by the Swiss company NanoFeel. With this add-on, users can move the AFM's tip or nanoscale objects using a hand-held interface that converts hand motions in three dimensions into corresponding nanometer-scale motions of the AFM tip. In turn, the forces "felt" by the probe are magnified and fed back into the user's hand. That offers the user, in effect, the ability to feel the very molecular landscape he or she is imaging or manipulating. 

With an eye on the as yet untapped market in bioscience and biotechnology, a decade-old company in Tempe, Ariz., called Molecular Imaging unveiled in February its new PicoTrec systems. Co- founder Stuart Lindsay, a professor at Arizona State University, says the AFM-based systems are capable of recognizing specific molecules and mapping their locations, such as receptors on a cell's surface where drug molecules might be able to do their medicine. Molecular Imaging's key innovation is a means of attaching particular molecules, such as antibodies, to the AFM tip, which bends when the molecule interacts with target molecules in the sample. Lindsay envisions a vast market for his AFMs in the thousands of biology laboratories where optical and electron microscopes have long been the primary tools for visualizing cells. 

At the National Institute of Standards and Technology, Joe Stroscio dotes on his one-of-a-kind microscope. It's part of an impossibly complex-looking assemblage of steel vacuum chambers, high- voltage boxes, thick glass portals, and adjustment dials, all housed in a vaultlike room and resting on a huge concrete slab that is mechanically isolated from the rest of the building to reduce vibrations. Using it, he and his colleagues have been developing a technique they call automatic atom assembly, or AAA. It's robotic manufacturing writ small: A scanning probe, programmed with a general set of instructions for moving atoms around, nudges atoms, which are peppered onto a surface, into any physically sensible configuration that Stroscio might want to create. It's difficult to figure how such a technique might be put to profitable use anytime soon, but Stroscio did recently extract potential publicity from the gadget by spelling out "CNN" in cobalt atoms for a cable network film crew. 

For the moment, Stroscio notes, automatic atomic assembly can work only with a limited number of atoms in just two dimensions, under a vacuum more extreme than that of outer space and at temperatures that would be cold on Pluto. With those provisos, he notes, "you can make a circle, a square--you name it." They are perhaps the kinds of nanostructures that in the future might be assembled by the gazillions or more into, say, Library of Congress chips. Even with its limitations, the fact that automatic atomic assembly works at all makes it at least as promising as Gerd Binnig's stucco daydream was in 1995. 

"I would have never thought you could do this," remarks Stroscio, admiring a monitor as an AAA run creates a zigzag pattern of cobalt atoms. "It's equivalent to reaching up and moving planets around with your hand." In nanoscale, of course. 

"ALL OF INDUSTRY IS IN NANOTECH'S PATH," including everything from medicine and electronics to transportation and pollution. control 

JUST AS YOU USE ALL YOUR SENSES TO EXPLORE the colors, aromas, and flavors of dinner, a single instrument can map many physical properties. 

A VACUUM MORE EXTREME THAN OUTER SPACE AND temperatures that would be cold even on Pluto are needed for atomic assembly, at least today. 

SEEING WITH A STYLUS Like a 21st-century phonograph, an AFM scans its microtip over a surface and captures the movements by laser. The resulting image of hills and valleys, says a researcher, "is as new a world as Mars." 

1 A tip only a few atoms across traces the surface of the sample. 

2 The repulsive force from surface atoms bends the tip upward. 

3 A laser registers the tip movement in a photodetector and records it as the surface topography. 

FEEDBACK fortunemail_letters@fortunemail.com. Stories from the Industrial Management & Technology section can be found at fortune.com/imt. Executives in manufacturing and research and others eligible to receive FORTUNE's Industrial Edition can subscribe by calling 888-394-5472. 

COLOR PHOTO THE SHARPEST EYES on earth: Nobelist Binnig's inventions extend human vision to unseen dimensions. COLOR PHOTO AZTEC BLANKETS? No, AFM images of a chip paved with tiny, pivoting micro-mirrors. COLOR DIAGRAM: FORTUNE DIAGRAM BY 5W INFOGRAPHIC 4 COLOR PHOTOS THE WORLD WRIT SMALL From top: the microstructure of a recording tape; magnetic domains in a data-storage medium; nanopores on an aluminum sample; a strand of DNA looping around two individual protein molecules COLOR PHOTO VIEWING SILICON WAFERS at a chip plant in San Jose 


Document FORTU00020040601e06e0000v


More Like This

 Article 383 *******************    



Nanotechnology Patents Surge As Companies Vie to Stake Claim 

By Antonio Regalado 
1,498 words 
18 June 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

The new-frontier buzz around nanotechnology -- the effort to develop infinitesimally small structures into futuristic products -- has companies, universities and investors hustling for patents, the key to markets that the government estimates at $1 trillion by 2015. 

But the intensifying race to file patent applications has sparked concern that a proliferation of patents, especially broadly defined ones, could hobble innovation and produce a thicket of conflicting legal claims that could eventually drive up costs for consumers. In addition, the combination of scant products to date and surging investor interest raises fears of another high-tech bubble. 

At stake is control over innovations that could have wide-ranging applications in the computing, defense and energy sectors. "It's the culmination of the historical miniaturization of many technologies," says Thomas Theis, director of physical science research at International Business Machines Corp., Armonk, N.Y. "This will only happen once." 

Nanotechnology in general refers to man-made structures less than 100 nanometers in size. One nanometer is one-billionth of a meter; one human hair is about 80,000 nanometers thick. Nano-scale materials exhibit unusual properties -- such as exceptional strength -- which scientists are trying to exploit to manufacture new products, such as inexpensive ultrathin televisions or futuristic computers. 

Patents awarded annually for nanotechnology inventions have tripled since 1996, with 10-fold or greater increases in some areas during the past three years. Corporate intellectual-property departments, which have increasingly sought to turn patents into major revenue streams, are stoking the trend. 

According to data compiled by the National Science Foundation, IBM won the most nanotech-related patents in 2003. Also among the top 10: computer-memory giant Micron Technology Inc. of Boise, Idaho; manufacturer 3M Corp. of St. Paul, Minn.; the University of California; and Japan's Canon Inc. 

Among the small but growing number of developments so far, General Motors Corp. says it will use 540,000 pounds of nanocomposite resins this year in the body of autos like the Chevy Impala. Levi Strauss & Co. sells stain-proof "nano-pants" in its Dockers khaki line impregnated with water-resistant molecules. Intel Corp.'s computer chips recently crossed into the nano-realm: Individual transistors now measure just 90 nanometers across. 

Smaller companies are buying patents from universities, which have been the beneficiaries of increasing government funding in nanotechnology. The federal government spends about $800 million a year on related research, and that sum is expected to increase with President Bush's signing of the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act last December. Japan and the European Union are spending similar sums in what is a growing international rivalry. 

Nanotechnology isn't a term with any clear definition, which also leaves patent statistics open to interpretation. While patenting is showing a "very strong increase," according to Stephen Maebius, a patent attorney with the law firm of Foley & Lardener, surveys of these patents depend heavily on keywords used to query databases. Analyses by several U.S. law firms and consulting groups all show substantial growth in patenting, but estimates on total patents differed widely. 

Driving the patenting boom is the potential for licensing revenue and power to control emerging technologies. IBM already takes in more than $1 billion a year in licensing revenue from its vast portfolio of patents, to which it is quickly adding those related to nanotechnology. 

Companies that hold pioneering patents could potentially put up tolls on entire industries. This March, Tokyo-based NEC Corp. announced a licensing campaign for its patents on carbon nanotubes. The telecommunications and electronics giant was first to discover the tiny tubes of pure carbon, which it says will be incorporated in a fuel-cell battery for notebook PCs by 2005. 

But nanotubes have many other applications -- including in transistors, ultra-wide-screen TVs and sensors -- and NEC's patents arguably give it control over all of them. "NEC plans to start actively encouraging companies to acknowledge its patents rights," says Diane Foley, an NEC spokeswoman. 

Zvi Yaniv, chief operating officer of Nano-Proprietary Inc. in Austin, Texas, says his company spent $1 million to acquire a German patent covering the use of carbon nanotubes in flat-panel television screens, one of more than 50 nanotechnology patents Nano-Proprietary has acquired. Now, Mr. Yaniv says, the company is pursuing companies it believes may be developing new screens. 

Several other small companies are also buying up as many patents as possible. "One of the main investment trends we see going on is a patent land-grab approach," says Peter Hebert, CEO of consulting firm Lux Research Inc., in New York. "You are seeing companies try to portray themselves as dominant" in particular areas. 

Experts see parallels to the early days of biotechnology, where patents on basic genetic-engineering techniques reaped hundreds of millions of dollars in royalty payments from drug companies. Most leading patent-law firms have raced to set up nanotechnology practices and have been encouraging clients to aggressively file patents. 

"It's like biotech on steroids," says Charles Wieland, an attorney with law firm Burns Doane Swecker and Mathis LLP in Alexandria, Va. 

Nanotechnology patents have been a hit with investors, even though the science is difficult to understand and few products have emerged so far. Nanogen Inc., a company developing diagnostics devices, saw its stock soar 51% in a single day last December after it put out a news release saying the Patent and Trademark Office had awarded it a nanotechnology-related patent. 

The value of the nanotechnology patents will soon be put to a significant test, observers say, by Nanosys Inc., a Silicon Valley start-up formed in 2001 that recently filed for an initial public offering underwritten by Merrill Lynch & Co. and Lehman Brothers. 

Although it was formed by top-tier universities and venture capitalists and has attracted substantial interest, Palo Alto-based Nanosys has offered investors only vague product plans. Instead, its anticipated $500 million valuation seems based almost entirely on its claim to control more than 200 patents and patent applications licensed from several universities. 

The flood of patents concerns some critics, who say that when faced with new technology the Patent Office all too often grants sweeping or overlapping patents in error. 

The agency was criticized for allowing uncontrolled patenting of human genes and of Internet business methods, such as Amazon.com's `One-Click' computer shopping patent. 

Patent Office officials say they recognize the problem and are working to bring the agency up to speed. The agency is developing a system to classify nanotechnology inventions, and it recently began sending 50 examiners each month to training seminars. 

"Right now there are not people graduating with nanotechnology degrees, so the expertise is being built internally," says Bruce Kisliuk, an agency director in charge of technology patents. 

Experts predict that nanotechnology could rival information technology as an economic driver, but some observers point out key differences. Many seminal inventions in software and computing were freely licensed or not patented at all, notes Ted Sabety, of Sabety + Associates, a legal and consulting firm in New York. By comparison, U.S. universities and companies now patent far more aggressively, and courts are more likely to find competitors guilty of patent infringement. 

"The patent thicket is going to be a bigger problem in nanotechnology than it was in computing," says Mr. Sabety. "The policy makers have to pay attention to this issue very seriously." 

For many small nanotechnology companies, patent fees are a major cost. When Vijaya Vasista became the CEO of Nanosphere Inc., Northbrook, Ill., in 2000, she says she was surprised to learn that patents were the No. 2 expense after payroll. Winning a patent in the U.S. can cost $30,000 in legal fees, and winning one world-wide can run to $250,000. Although "the patent game is an expensive one," Ms. Vasista says it's necessary to protect the DNA tests Nanosphere is developing that use tiny gold particles. 

Big companies are betting their attention to patents now will be critical in the future. Computer giant Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif., says it has been granted about two-dozen nanotechnology patents in the past five years, half of those coming in 2003. And "we have about 70 applications pending, more than half of which were filed last year," says HP Labs spokesman Dave Berman. 

HP's major patenting thrust is driven by the "understanding that the way things are manufactured is likely to change quite a lot in the next few years," says Phil Kuekes, a researcher in a group studying the possibility of new, inexpensive computers built using chemistry. 

Dr. Kuekes, who has helped write a half-dozen patent applications already this year, says the claims are important "so that when change happens, you are one of the players." 

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: No Uncontrolled Patenting Of Emerging Technologies" -- WSJ July 13, 2004) 

Document J000000020040618e06i00040


More Like This

 Article 384 *******************    



Peeking at Plaque; Predicting future heart attacks. 

Robert Langreth and Matthew Herper 
976 words 
21 June 2004
Forbes
164
Volume 173 Issue 13
English
(c) 2004 Forbes Inc. 

Exotic artery imaging may speed drug development and predict future heart attacks. 

In drab offices at the Cleveland Clinic, 11 technicians toil at computer consoles and painstakingly analyze videotape of a peek inside the arteries of ailing heart patients. At stake is the fate of experimental drugs with the potential for billions of dollars in sales. The lab is the brainchild of cardiologist Steven Nissen, who has convinced drug companies that an exotic artery imaging technology called intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) can help them get their products to market much faster. The technique involves threading a miniature ultrasound probe into the coronary artery with a catheter, then taking a three-minute video inside. Technicians use the resulting images to measure the volume of plaque in a segment of an artery; a standard angiogram merely measures obstructions to blood flow. "This has the capacity to cut drug development time in half," says Nissen. 

Some doctors predict that plaque imaging could transform the treatment of heart disease by the end of this decade. "It will have an incredible impact. You'll be able to identify the 48-year-old guy walking around with a time bomb and prevent him from dying at 49," says Zahi Fayad, director of cardiovascular imaging research at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, who has pioneered the use of MRI machines to measure artery plaque. Plaque imaging "is the next big thing that every cardiologist is looking at," adds Praveen Nadkarni, marketing manager for cardiac CT at Siemens Medical Solutions. 

The IVUS method has been around for a decade but gained wide recognition last fall when Nissen's team used it to show that an experimental protein drug could remove 4% of the artery plaque from patients in five weeks. Now at least 11 drug firms are considering using IVUS to test their new atherosclerosis drugs. By determining changes in plaque volume after a drug is given, companies hope that IVUS will give them an early read on which drugs are likely to prevent heart attacks. 

Pfizer has made Nissen's IVUS a linchpin in clinical trials for torcetrapib, an experimental drug that raises "good" cholesterol; the imaging could help it get the drug approved by 2007, years ahead of full-fledged proof that the drug actually saves lives. For other heart medicines that don't affect cholesterol levels, like a drug being developed by Japan's Sankyo to keep plaque from sticking to the artery wall, IVUS may be the only way to evaluate effectiveness. 

Some skeptics question whether the plaque reductions captured on camera by Nissen's team at the Cleveland Clinic actually correspond to reduced heart risk. "Steven Nissen is a good salesman," says Larry L. Rudel, a cholesterol researcher at Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center in Winston-Salem, N.C., but the evidence still isn't clear. 

IVUS plaque-measurement is too cumbersome to become a routine diagnostic test, as it takes a technician a full day to calculate one patient's plaque volume from videotaped images. But numerous other researchers are developing simpler-to-use methods to spot dangerous, inflamed plaque so patients can be treated before they get heart attacks. 

New catheter-based imagers aim to improve IVUS by letting doctors distinguish stable plaque, safely ensconced in scar tissue, from the inflamed plaque that is more likely to rupture and trigger a heart attack. Volcano Therapeutics, a maker of IVUS machines, is testing a new version that uses sophisticated software to quickly determine plaque composition and volume. LightLab Imaging, a unit of Japan's Goodman, is testing a method using light. This boosts the resolution tenfold, enough to spot plaque with thin fibrous caps that may be more unstable. Thermocore Medical in England is testing a catheter containing tiny temperature sensors, betting that inflamed plaque is slightly hotter than the rest of the artery. 

But obtaining such images usually requires threading a catheter through an artery in the groin. Many cardiologists say noninvasive ways of scanning arteries would be far more useful. MRI machines and spiral and electron-beam CT scanners have steadily increased in speed and resolution, making coronary imaging a possibility for the first time, although none of these techniques match the resolution of IVUS. Fayad's team in New York attracted attention in 2000 when it published the first high-resolution magnetic resonance images of coronary artery plaque using a new technique called "black-blood" MRI. To improve the MRI's ability to spot the most inflamed plaque, Fayad (like many others) is trying to develop nanoparticles that would be injected into patients and would lodge in fat-laden cells in the artery walls. 

In the future, Fayad predicts, adults judged to be at moderate-to-high risk of heart disease based on blood tests may have their artery walls scanned using a combination of high-resolution CT (good for quickly examining large sections of arteries) and MRI (better at determining the chemical composition of plaque). Software would quickly calculate total plaque volume, tally the percentage of stable versus unstable plaque and spit out a "vascular age" score corresponding to heart risk. The nastiest-looking arteries might be stabilized with some form of local therapy, such as drug-coated stents, light-activated drugs to kill off inflamed cells or even gene therapy. 

It is not yet clear what additional predictive value plaque imaging will add to traditional risk factors such as cholesterol and blood pressure. Nor is it clear how "unstable" plaque should be treated once identified (besides using more cholesterol drugs). Researchers will have to prove in big studies how plaque measurements can be used to better predict future heart attacks or to guide therapy. "The whole industry is still in the embryonic stage," admits Thermocore Chief John Yianni. 

Document FB00000020040607e06l00017


More Like This

 Article 385 *******************    



Entrepreneurs

In Dust We Trust; A nanotech company starts small. 

Tomas Kellner 
1,137 words 
21 June 2004
Forbes
180
Volume 173 Issue 13
English
(c) 2004 Forbes Inc. 

A nanotech company starts small. 

The old redbrick mill on River Road in Willington, Conn. recalls the textile factories that led American industry 200 years ago. Water from a bucolic pond drains into a sluice gate and rushes down a shallow millrace. A preserved power shaft still hangs from thick oak rafters. 

Step inside, where a slight chemical odor pinches the nose, and witness a new kind of industrial revolution. A dozen researchers, speaking a medley of Asian accents, bustle between a bank of fume hoods, works in progress and box furnaces set in a 10,000-square-foot lab. In the middle of the floor a tattooed mechanic with a mullet assembles a piece of testing equipment. He and David Reisner, cofounder and chief executive of Inframat, are among the few Caucasians here--a small illustration of what you might call insourcing. "There just weren't enough [qualified Americans] around," Reisner says. 

This is pretty specialized work. Some 30 men and women are developing nanostructured coating materials that vastly improve the mechanical features--durability and thermal properties, for instance--of parts made from conventional metals like steel and bronze. Working with compounds whose grains are as small as ten-billionths of a meter across, the engineers are toughening propeller shafts on Navy minesweepers as well as tooth implants and artificial joints. Inframat and its sister company, US Nanocorp (which builds battery and fuel-cell nanomaterials), are idea labs. In 2003 the companies pulled in $3 million in revenue, only 10% from commercial sales. The bulk was government research money, the main source of the $20 million in grants and contracts Reisner has sucked up since 1996, when he started out, from the likes of the Navy, NASA, the National Institutes of Health and other agencies. Private capital abhors abstruse products that can take years to reach the market. Besides, he says, "We would have had to give away half the company for a few hundred thousand dollars." 

Reisner pushes his folks to conduct research with commercial potential, then draft grant proposals. The vice president of R&D corrects their grammar and sends off the requests. "[Paid] research gives you the freedom to try stuff out," he says. Hundreds of old proposals are crammed in white cardboard boxes inside Reisner's office at the nearby Farmington headquarters. Two out of ten grant applications, he says, are approved. 

The next step is selling discoveries to commercial clients. Last year materials scientist H. Amy Chen landed a $750,000 grant from the U.S. Air Force for water filtration research. She found that nanofibers made from manganese oxide can be synthesized into bird's-nest-like matrices with high surface areas that trap most contaminants, including lead and arsenic. Today she's working with Omnipure to build manganese oxide filters for kitchen taps. Xinging Ma, a materials scientist whom Reisner recruited from the Sorbonne in Paris, is working on a project with United Technologies' Pratt & Whitney, spraying jet engine parts with Inframat's thermal barrier nanocoatings; the material, zirconia dust, was originally developed for the Navy. Ma relies on a patent in his own name to turn zirconia into a solution, applying it with a rented plasma gun burning at 30,000 degrees Fahrenheit. The coat behaves like a thermal blanket, protecting parts such as turbine blades from a meltdown. That in turn allows an experimental jet to run hotter, boosting efficiency from 400 cycles to 1,200 cycles. So far the company's research has yielded 21 patents but no solid commercial deals. "I espouse a very Darwinian approach," says Reisner. "You throw things against the wall and see what sticks." 

Reisner launched this business eight years ago with help from two University of Connecticut materials scientists, T. Danny Xiao and Peter Strutt, and onetime dean of the business school at Southern Connecticut State University James Hsiao. Reisner, 49, joined IBM in San Jose, Calif. after receiving a Ph.D. from MIT in physical chemistry. While working for Electro Energy he visited UConn to consult with Xiao and Strutt about battery materials. They hit it off so well that Reisner called back soon after and suggested they start their own company. 

They had a rough go of it. Reisner, who has three children, quit his job and lived off the income of his wife, who has an ob-gyn practice. Xiao left his position teaching materials science at UConn, moved in with his brother and lived on carrots and tomatoes from Strutt's garden. The founders took no salary for 18 months. They wrote dozens of grant proposals on Reisner's home computer for projects dealing with nanomaterials for fuel cells and rechargeable batteries for consumer electronics. The National Science Foundation coughed up $75,000 for manganese oxide development; the U.S. Special Operations Command came up with $100,000 for batteries--enough to lease lab space and pick up a raft of secondhand equipment for 10 cents on the dollar. The raw nanomaterial they got from China. 

A big boost came from the Office for Naval Research in 1997. Lawrence Kabacoff, the Navy's project manager, had a problem with the fleet's minesweepers. The boats' foot-thick, bronze propeller shafts were succumbing to attrition. Steel shafts held up better but triggered the magnetic detectors in mines. Reisner proposed spraying the shafts with a ceramic nanopowder--a blend of 83% alumina and 17% titania whose specks are a single micron in diameter--to form an extremely tough and pliant coating that would resist peeling and cracking. "I realized we were looking at something very different," says Kabacoff. He has since sent $5 million worth of Navy work Reisner's way. 

As business expanded, the company scrambled for talent. It collected referrals and scoured American schools with good materials-science labs where Chinese-born students compete for placement. Reisner pays high wages, a prerequisite for the high-skill H-1B work visa, and he has a full-time personnel manager who deals with immigration lawyers. Three-quarters of the workers at Nano Group, as the combined companies are now called, are foreign born. 

A 16-foot, stainless-steel spray dryer is cranking out nanopowder by the ton. At $35 a pound the stuff will help pay the salaries of all those Ph.D.s. (Some of whom "understand when we miss the payroll by a few days," says Hsiao.) Powder sales have totaled $100,000 in the last three years. They should climb this year, thanks to three new joint ventures: two in the U.S., where the company holds an equity stake, and one with a Chinese manufacturer, which pays a percentage of sales. Says Reisner: "I think we've turned a corner." 

Document FB00000020040607e06l0001d


More Like This

 Article 386 *******************    



Venture Capitalists Are Pushing on the Accelerator Again 

By Ann Grimes 
1,007 words 
24 June 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

THE 56% JUMP in salesforce.com stock on its first day of trading yesterday could be good news for the venture-capital business, which seems to be at the beginning of a recovery after bottoming out when the tech-stock bubble burst. 

But some worry that the San Francisco customer-relationship software-maker's successful initial public offering, which left the company valued at about $1.7 billion, could fuel a return to the worst tendencies of the past. 

"We have moved from cautious to dangerous optimism," says Peter Wagner, with Accel Partners in Palo Alto, Calif. He says investors should know where they stand in the recovery cycle before deciding whether to throttle back or go full speed ahead. 

Some are unsure of how to maneuver as venture capitalists, especially in Silicon Valley, begin to push on the accelerator again. Rather than shift slowly from first to fifth gear, some already appear to be racing ahead as they pull out of a three-year trough that saw the industry shrink in terms of dollars raised, deployed and distributed. 

While nowhere near levels of the late 1990s, the pace of investment in new companies has picked up noticeably. So far this year, dollars invested are up 28% from the year-earlier period, to $11.3 billion, according to VentureWire, a Dow Jones & Co. publication. Venture investing slid to $18.4 billion in 2003 from its high of $105.8 billion in 2000, according to the PricewaterhouseCoopers/Thomson Venture Economics/National Venture Capital Association MoneyTree Survey. 

Fund raising is at a two-year high. Nearly half of U.S. venture firms are raising new funds this year or plan to do so next year. While many of the funds being raised are smaller than in the past, at 919 the number of venture firms remains near the record of 943 in 2001, according to the National Venture Capital Association. 

"It is clear things are happening," says Harvard Business School Professor Josh Lerner. He likens the current recovery to "a series of mini-bubbles that are localized and more intense in California and in technology." 

What once were single-digit financings are starting to move into the double digits. Valuations of start-up companies are creeping up, especially for later-stage transactions. In Silicon Valley, valuations of companies that raised money in the first quarter were up 17% from previous financing rounds, according to law firm Fenwick & West in Mountain View, Calif. Although second-quarter numbers won't be known for a month and the outlook for the rest of the year is clouded by the political situation in the U.S. and internationally, venture capitalists say that for now deals are more competitive, and closing at a faster clip. 

Accel's Mr. Wagner says things may be going too fast. "We are seeing behavior that we'd associate with the bubble applied to a different cycle of the market. That won't lead to good returns." 

In Mr. Wagner's view of the venture world, outlined at a recent industry conference in San Francisco, venture capitalists are just entering a "firming" period, one that historically takes about five years. It follows a two-year "bottoming out" phase that began in 2002 and the "free fall" from 2000 to 2001. The hot part of the cycle -- associated with the Internet boom -- occurred in 1996 to 1999, in his view. 

What concerns him most, at least in the short term, is a Malthusian-like overpopulation of investors in certain sectors, who can disappear just as quickly as they arrived. He calls them "flash crowds." 

By his estimates 112 companies currently offer a product to combat junk e-mail, or "spam." Twenty-one of these have received a total of nearly $800 million in venture backing since 1997, he says. Only four have gone public or been bought, returning $500 million total to investors, and one deal accounted for most of that. 

Industry veteran Vinod Kholsa of Silicon Valley's blue-chip venture firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers sees a potential bubble in nanotechnology. Speaking at the San Francisco conference, he noted that some nanotechnology companies are going public with neither revenue nor a clear development path for their products. 

Other sectors are hot, too, such as wireless, social networking, Internet advertising and videogames. Funding for e-commerce retailing and distribution start-ups was up to $43.6 million in the first quarter this year from $14 million a year earlier, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. Meanwhile, consumer products and services captured $107.3 million in the quarter, up from $25 million a year earlier, the firm says. 

"We are seeing deals close in three to four weeks of a first meeting," including legal reviews, says Bart Schachter, a general partner at Blueprint Ventures in San Francisco. 

Despite poor returns in recent years, institutional investors appear as eager to invest in venture capital as before. And there's a new money source: foreign investors. Finland's government pension fund, for example, recently placed $125 million with Grove Street Advisors to build a U.S. venture portfolio of 15 partnerships. 

Add competitive bids from corporate investors and capital that is committed but not yet invested that industry experts say ranges anywhere between $10 billion and $60 billion, and many venture capitalists are under the gun to get large chunks of money to work. "The economy is fragile but it doesn't take a lot to get [the technology sector] jazzed up," says Jesse Reyes, vice president of Thomson Venture Economics. 

No matter how salesforce.com performs long term, Mr. Wagner says, venture capitalists need to build portfolios that mix highly proprietary deals with good time-to-market opportunities and start-ups that tackle really hard problems. "We are not going to stop the cycle," he says. "But if you know where you are in the playing field, you can adjust your actions so you are not a victim of it." 

Document J000000020040624e06o0001x


More Like This

 Article 387 *******************    



Technology

China's Nanotech Uses Intel Gear 

262 words 
24 June 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A12
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

SHANGHAI -- Nanotech Corp., the first Chinese semiconductor manufacturer to obtain its equipment from industry giant Intel Corp., plans to spend as much as $650 million on a chip factory to begin production late next year, a senior executive said. 

Nanotech announced Saturday it had reached a deal to purchase used equipment from Intel for the new plant, to be built in the Chinese city of Changzhou, about 85 miles northwest of Shanghai. Intel also will transfer manufacturing technology and provide training to Nanotech employees as part of the agreement. 

The deal marks the first time Intel, the world's largest semiconductor manufacturer, has sold manufacturing technology and equipment to a Chinese chip company, and highlights the continuing expansion of China's nascent semiconductor industry. Nanotech joins an expanding group of Chinese chip makers aiming to serve the country's fast-growing chip demand. The leader is Shanghai-based Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. 

Foreign chip companies also are establishing footholds in China, including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., which expects to start production this year at a $898 million Shanghai facility. 

Stephen Chan, Nanotech's vice president for finance, said the company expects its investment for the first two phases of production to total between $600 million and $650 million. He said funding would come from both Chinese and foreign investors but declined to elaborate. 

Colleen Rubart, a spokeswoman for Intel, said the deal didn't involve Intel taking an equity stake in Nanotech, and there aren't plans for Intel to outsource production to the company. 

Document J000000020040624e06o0002n


More Like This

 Article 388 *******************    



Politics & Policy

Bush Faces Challenge From Scientists --- Administration Is Criticized for Its Use of Information in Divisive Issues 

By Antonio Regalado 
1,072 words 
15 July 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A4
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

IN A BIG SHIFT for the normally docile scientific community, some leading researchers are mounting a political campaign to unseat President Bush this fall, accusing the administration of twisting scientific facts to fit its policies on issues such as global warming, sex education and stem-cell research. 

While science issues don't loom as large as jobs and national security, Democratic strategists argue the president's record on science and environmental matters may prove vulnerable, at least to voters who haven't made up their minds. 

The Bush camp sharply disagrees. Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush-Cheney campaign, says, "The president's record on science is tremendous, and we will be talking about our support for science." Republicans note that Mr. Bush has supported research on hydrogen fuels and nanotechnology. His Office of Science & Technology Policy says federal research-and-development budgets have risen 44% since Mr. Bush took office to $132 billion, including boosts to medical research at the National Institutes of Health. 

But attacks are intensifying. Last month, 48 Nobel Prize winners publicly endorsed Sen. John Kerry's presidential bid, while thousands of researchers have signed a statement condemning Mr. Bush's science record. 

Meanwhile, a group of senior scientific leaders is close to launching "Scientists and Engineers for Kerry." Among the group's goals: galvanize voters in battleground states such as Ohio and Pennsylvania that are home to large hospitals, research campuses and medical institutions that employ tens of thousands of potential voters. 

The coalition is being organized by a group including Harold Varmus, president of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York; Henry Kelly, president of the Federation of American Scientists; and Gilbert Omenn, the president-elect of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C. All three are informal policy advisers to the Kerry campaign and veterans of past Democratic administrations. Dr. Varmus worked in the Clinton administration as the head of NIH. 

"This group is going to be very active around the country," drumming up interest on campuses and organizing speeches by Nobel winners, Dr. Kelly says. 

The Kerry campaign has tried melding the scientists' message into other campaign points about high-tech jobs and economic growth. The presumed Democratic nominee recently inserted into his stump speech a wish to be the president "remembered for restoring our commitment to science." 

"If you look at the four core issues -- jobs, health care, energy and security -- science plays a really important role in all," says Kerry economic adviser Jason Furman. "For the public, the question of scientific credibility is one of the most clear-cut indicators of presidential credibility. The public can understand when virtually all scientists say something and the administration denies it." 

Recent events have helped bring some scientists' concerns to the fore. This week, Democrats announced that Ronald Reagan Jr., in the wake of former President Reagan's death from Alzheimer's disease, plans to give a prime-time speech at the party's Boston convention this month calling on Mr. Bush to lift his restrictions on embryonic stem-cell research. 

The frustration of many in the scientific mainstream has been palpable since early in Mr. Bush's term, when battle lines were drawn over issues like standards for arsenic in drinking water, climate change and stem cells. The depth of anger is frequently palpable at scientific meetings on controversial topics, where it is common to hear Mr. Bush's policies openly and bitterly criticized. 

Beyond those topics, the increased political activity among scientists comes against a backdrop of worry that the U.S. is losing its technological pre-eminence to foreign competitors, as well as anxiety over flat budget projections for science agencies. 

According to analyses by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a nonprofit membership group, funding increases cited by the White House mostly have gone toward testing weapons systems and other industrial work. That has left fundamental research in physics and other areas facing a budget crunch. 

Some Republicans say that left-leaning scientists are selective in what issues they focus on. "There are a series of societal issues that they are trying to define in a science framework, but it's really their social agenda," says David Winston, a Republican pollster with the Winston Group, in Alexandria, Va. And William Happer, a physicist at Princeton University, notes that not all scientists are Democrats, or Bush-bashers. 

How much traction science issues will have in the campaign remains unclear. Many science issues aren't well understood by voters, who are most concerned about the economy and Iraq, followed by retirement, health care and education. "Science tends to be an infrastructure to a lot of other issues, and not separated out in voters' minds," Mr. Winston says. 

At the least, science issues are being trumpeted by some groups that see the presidential campaign as an opportunity to press for policy changes. The Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, the nation's most important advocate of stem-cell research, is spending as much as $1 million to support grass-roots movements in swing states and elsewhere to pressure the administration to change its policy, JDRF President and Chief Executive Peter Van Etten says. 

As a nonprofit, the foundation is barred from political activity and "absolutely does not have position on who should be president," Mr. Van Etten says. "We don't want our people running off to Kerry fund-raisers." 

The Union of Concerned Scientists, in Cambridge, Mass., a left-leaning group focusing on social and environmental issues, also says it is neutral on the election. The 63,000-member organization has hired a consultant to documents instances in which it says the administration has disregarded scientific facts in making policy. It released a lengthy report in February, and last week unveiled more cases it says represent "abuse" of science by the Bush administration. More than 4,000 scientists signed an accompanying statement. 

For instance, the reports cites the Food and Drug Administration's decision to overrule its advisory committee and medical staffers in deciding not to allow the emergency contraceptive Plan B to be sold without a prescription. 

Republicans circulated documents last week showing prominent signers of the UCS statement have donated $27,600 to Mr. Kerry and no money to Mr. Bush. 

Document J000000020040715e07f00025


More Like This

 Article 389 *******************    



Developments to Watch: INNOVATIONS

Of hot plates and hearing aids 

By Sarah R. Shapiro Edited by Catherine Arnst 
224 words 
19 July 2004
BusinessWeek
84
Volume 3892
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

-- Miniature hot plates developed by Boston MicroSystems are smaller than the width of a human hair and have the capacity to reach temperatures of more than 2,000F. These tiny stoves can completely heat up or cool down in less than two milliseconds, and they use only a small fraction of a watt of electricity. That's much less energy than it takes to power a lightbulb. Researchers are interested in using the heaters to grow carbon nanotubes, a key building block in nanotechnology. The company is also evaluating the hot plates for use in a gas sensor technology, still in development, which would monitor air pollutants. 

-- A new hearing aid uses artificial intelligence to mimic the brain's ability to detect speech while filtering out distracting sounds. This split-second aural discernment is lost to many people suffering hearing impairment. There are already digital hearing aids with microprocessors that predict how a human should hear the many different sounds in any particular environment. Oticon, a Danish hearing-aid maker, says its Syncro device goes a step further, constantly scanning the environment for voices and other sounds. Its tiny processor then makes millions of calculations per second to determine instantly the best speech-to-noise ratio. 

Document BW00000020040715e07j0001i


More Like This

 Article 390 *******************    



401(k) (A Special Report) --- What Do You Do With Your Nest Egg Now? Interest rates are heading higher; The stock market is heading who knows where -- Here's what it all means to your 401(k) 

By Raymond Hennessey 
3,192 words 
19 July 2004
The Wall Street Journal
R1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

HERE WE GO AGAIN. 

After a year of stellar gains, stocks are widely expected to post flat to low growth. Interest rates are likely to rise over the next few years, meaning even more uncertainty for stock investors and bondholders. And the higher cost of everything from gasoline to milk has raised the specter of inflation. 

What's a 401(k) investor to do? How do you protect the nest egg you've built up without sacrificing growth? 

The answers, of course, depend on your age, lifestyle and goals. If you're about to retire, for instance, protect your money with fixed-income investments -- but go for bonds with short maturities, to guard against expected increases in interest rates. Middle-aged investors should stay in stocks but hedge with bonds that are adjusted for inflation, so they won't lose value over the long term. The younger crowd, meanwhile, could diversify an aggressive equity portfolio by looking at large-cap stock funds. 

But there's an even more basic rule that applies to everyone with a 401(k): Don't cut back on your contributions just because the future looks uncertain. 

Why? You'd be throwing away free money: the matching contribution that most employers offer. 

"That's the worst possible thing," says Diahann Lassus, president of Lassus Wherley & Associates, a financial-planning firm with offices in New Providence, N.J., and Naples, Fla. "Some companies are doing huge matches." 

All plans are different, and it can be difficult to figure out how much your employer will kick in. But making that effort could mean hundreds of extra dollars a year in your retirement portfolio. 

Say your employer matches 50% of your own contributions up to 5% of your salary. If you make $50,000 a year and contribute 3%, your company is adding $750 to the $1,500 you've set aside. But if you contributed 5%, you'd be getting the full company match of $1,250 -- a difference of $500. Assuming a modest annual return of 5%, that $500 a year, compounded over 30 years, could mean an extra $36,000 when you retire. 

Meanwhile, other companies match only if you contribute a certain percentage. For example, some companies will match up to 3% of your salary, provided you contribute 3%. Workers age 50 and older are allowed to contribute as much as $16,000 a year; if you're younger, you can put in as much as $13,000. 

Your goal should be to calculate precisely how much you need to set aside to get the most money out of your employer -- and if you can afford it, do at least that much. "It's an instant return," Ms. Lassus says. "Just take it." 

Unfortunately, the complexity of these plans has turned off lots of people. Thirty percent of eligible workers don't take part in their employers' plans, according to a survey by Hewitt Associates, a human-resources consulting firm in Lincolnshire, Ill. 

Complexity leads "plainly and simply to apathy," says Rick Meigs, president of 401khelpcenter.com, an informational Web site in Portland, Ore. Mr. Meigs adds that this apathy can be especially acute for younger workers, who think they don't need to start yet to save for retirement. 

That brings up the next big question: Where do you put your money? 

As a rule of thumb, younger workers should be heavy in equities: They can afford to risk short-term swings in the equities markets for the promise of long-term rewards. They can also pick funds in higher-risk areas, such as technology and biotech. 

Those planning their retirement party should be much heavier -- as much as 75% -- in fixed-income vehicles, such as short-term and intermediate-term bonds funds, which offer lower, but more predictable, returns. And their stock holdings should be weighted toward safer large caps and steady dividend producers. 

Still, remember that you may not be as free to tinker with your allocations as you'd like. Even though 401(k) plans are offering more fund choices these days, many are still quite limited in their options. And plans that do offer lots of options usually focus on different shades of equity funds. 

Moreover, don't make wholesale changes to your 401(k) just to add balance. You run the risk of doing more harm than good if you make decisions based on fear -- such as moving to a large cash position just before equities rise steeply -- rather than firm financial goals. The best approach is to develop a plan, but be ready to make adjustments as either your circumstances or the broader markets change. 

"I believe strongly in staying the course," says Nancy Langdon Jones, a financial planner with NLJones Inc. in Upland, Calif. "You just have to be sure you're on the right course." 

So what course is right for you? Here's an in-depth look at what you should be doing with your 401(k) at different stages of your working life. 

Age 60+ 

For a while now, you've probably already been playing it safe, moving steadily away from stocks into fixed income. That's exactly where you should be if you want to protect your nest egg as interest rates rise. 

But you have to make sure you're in the right kind of bonds. Currently, it's best to look for bond funds leaning heavily toward shorter-maturity securities, says Michael Kresh of MD Kresh Financial Services Inc. in Islandia, N.Y. Some ultrashort-term funds, for instance, have maturities within two years. 

Why? Because bond prices fall as interest rates rise, short-term funds will leave your principal less exposed to the long period of rising rates we're probably about to enter. Plus, you won't be stuck for years with interest payments that seem puny as rates increase. 

"There are very few things in this world that are certain, but one of them is that interest rates are going up," Mr. Kresh says. 

Given the rise in rates, you should also be cautious about moving into 401(k) options heavily invested in real-estate securities. This sector has been an attractive alternative to equities and bonds, since low mortgage rates spurred a buying frenzy that drove the price of properties higher. Now, higher rates are likely to drive down buying and damp values. The obituary on the housing boom has been written -- and torn up -- several times over the past few years, but it might be time to book any gains. 

Your specific asset allocation depends on your appetite for risk. For folks leaning more toward protecting the nest egg than building it up, 65% in short-term bonds and cash is a safe bet, with 35% in large-capitalization stock funds. 

If you have little appetite for risk, put 75% in bonds, such as short-term and intermediate-term offerings. If you're very nervous, putting more money in cash may actually become a better option in the coming few years, since rising interest rates may finally push money-market returns higher. 

If you're looking for a middle road between a money-market fund and a short- or intermediate-term bond fund, there's always the option of a stable-value fund. These typically contain bonds and/or guaranteed investment contracts with an insurance wrapper designed to make sure your principal investment is always protected. The guarantee on principal will hold unless the underlying bonds or the fund's insurer go into default. 

Of course, safety comes at a cost. While these offerings are designed to provide the same returns as short-duration bond funds, the insurance brings higher fees. 

But because many people are living longer in retirement -- and thus need to build up more cash -- planners are starting to suggest that some investors with a high risk tolerance stay at more than 50% in large-cap stocks, even up to the day they retire. 

What stocks should you be looking for in your funds' holdings? Blue chips with well-known names may be best able to weather the bumpy patch ahead, and most of them also pay dividends, ensuring regular income. 

Ages 45-60 

By this point, you've been pouring money into your 401(k) for some time -- and have gotten used to a very definite investing picture. Even during the recent market slump, you could feel good about your retirement because your home value had risen -- providing a psychological cushion. At the same time, you've been hesitant to invest in fixed income for fear of missing a stock rally. And, with low interest rates, keeping your investments in cash has offered almost no return. 

Now, though, you face new dynamics. Stock returns could well be flat or negative in a rising-interest-rate environment. At the very least, volatility, which has been benign lately, is likely to increase, so staying in equities may not be for the faint of heart. This might be the time to start moving 401(k) money into bond funds with shorter maturities. The later into your 50s you are, the closer you should be to a 50-50 split between bonds and stocks. 

Here's the tricky part: The way you reallocate can make the difference between whether or not you retire comfortably. The best approach is gradual, says Lassus Wherley's Ms. Lassus. Don't take a portfolio that's, say, 70% stocks and 30% bonds and reverse the allocation in one transaction. By doing that, you might miss mini-rallies in the stock market that could boost your portfolio value. When traders are expecting bad news, any positive surprises -- improving corporate profits, benign inflation, a lighter touch on the Fed's part -- may have an intense short-term impact. 

So, to prevent missing out on gains and still protect yourself against a longer-term slump, rejigger the new cash you put into your plan so you end up with a 5% reallocation each year. Say you're age 50 and have a portfolio that's 70% weighted in equities. At age 51, you should be 65% weighted in stocks, and 60% at 52. If you want a more conservative portfolio quickly, you can increase the percentage, but try to avoid making more than a 10% shift per year. 

What sort of bonds should you be looking at? Consider investments that can do well in an environment with rising inflation. Most planners suggest Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, where the value of the bond is adjusted to the rate of inflation. 

(MORE) 

Investing in TIPS through your 401(k) gives you a big tax advantage. Ordinarily, TIPS buyers have to pay federal taxes on the interest they make off the principal and the adjustments that are made to the inflation rate. Plus, they have to pay taxes every year, even though they don't actually collect until maturity. But if you buy TIPS through a 401(k), you don't pay taxes until you start taking distributions. By that time, since you won't be working anymore, you'll probably be in a lower tax bracket. 

If you're worried about inflation, stable-value funds are probably not the best place for you. Part of the draw of stable-value funds over the past few years has been that their returns easily outpaced inflation. If, however, returns on these funds don't keep pace with inflation, that essentially leaves you with less money available to meet your expenses when you retire. 

This is also the best time to wean yourself off your company's stock, planners say. You may be a true believer in your company's prospects, and the stock may be on a tear. But companies do go belly up, and the falls can be fast and furious, leaving you no time to protect your investments. You can still hold your own company's shares in other ways, such as stock options or stock-purchase plans. But consider the 401(k) sacred ground at this point in your life. 

This is especially so if your company is vulnerable to rising interest rates and inflation. For example, if you work for a retailer that is largely dependent on discretionary spending, you might want to be more aggressive about jumping ship. As inflation rises, so does the cost of your company's products -- which could crimp sales, lower profits and hurt the stock. 

Ages 35-45 

In the coming months, you're going to face a big temptation to go the safe route, particularly as the interest you collect from bonds and cash rises. Fight that temptation. Retirement is too far away for you to be worried about problems in the market right now. 

Don't let your equity allocation fall below 70%, even if stocks take a tumble. Equities historically have provided by far the best returns -- certainly over bonds and cash -- and you have enough time to weather some ups and downs in the market and still come out well ahead. By going conservative now, you'll be sacrificing 20 years' worth of higher gains for equities. 

But that doesn't mean you should just sit still. Rather, diversify within your own allocations, planners suggest. Think of it this way: An aggressive portfolio may have 90% in equities. But you can hedge by making sure that the underlying funds are more conservative. 

That could mean that most of your equity allocation is in large-capitalization or value-oriented mutual funds, instead of high-growth ones. Consider especially funds whose underlying holdings are tied to commodity prices, such as oil companies, which benefit from the rising costs inflation brings. This also offsets any negative effects on the stocks from interest-rate increases. So, while you're paying more at the pump, you're at least making money in your nest egg. 

There are some areas to shun. As interest rates rise, and make it more expensive to borrow money, banks and insurance companies could suffer. And real estate will likely get hammered. Avoid funds that invest heavily in real-estate investment trusts or sectors such as home building. 

If you're worried about the state of the market, it might be more helpful to change the way you think about your investments, rather than the way you allocate, planners say. 

MD Kresh's Mr. Kresh suggests thinking in terms of actual dollars rather than percentages. Say you're 35 and have a 401(k) with $50,000. You may shudder at the thought of losing 20% of your holdings because of a stock-market correction. In truth, though, that's just $10,000. In 30 years, you should make that back easily. So, it's worth staying the course. 

Take heart in knowing this is a luxury older workers don't have, Mr. Kresh says. A $500,000 401(k) dropping by the same percentage for a 60-year-old investor leaves a far deeper hole -- and with much less time to make it up. 

"When you're older, that's when both the percentages and the numbers can get scary," Mr. Kresh says. 

Under 35 

At this age, your 401(k) is likely the last thing on your mind. You're probably just making big-time bucks, getting married and buying a house. You care more about the twins and minivan in your future than the far-off land of retirement. And with inflation nibbling away at your paycheck, and higher interest rates making it tougher to borrow, who even has the money to sock away? 

Of all the age groups surveyed by Hewitt Associates, workers between 20 and 29 had the lowest 401(k) participation, with only 45% of employees who were eligible taking part in their companies' plans. 

But anything you can put aside is better than missing out on the long-term gains off your investment, plus your company's match. Unless you subscribe to a doomsday scenario for stocks, chances are very good you'll make money over the long term by staying aggressive and using the current volatility as the proverbial buying opportunity. 

"This is really an ideal market to be moving into when you have money going in every month," Ms. Lassus says. 

Based on historical returns, stocks are the only good option for this age group, with just token allocations in fixed income (if you must) and nothing whatsoever in cash. Steer clear of value funds or even balanced funds, which have fixed-income and equity components. These may provide more stable returns, but you're sacrificing growth prospects. 

The best bets for this market? Old high-risk, high-reward favorites like technology and biotech. These sectors have been good bets for long-term outsize growth for some time -- but they have some particular advantages in the coming market. 

As the Internet boom of the 1990s showed, it doesn't take much of a spark to get a tech bubble growing. Though still speculative, hot scientific fields like nanotechnology and alternative energy could provide the next market boom. 

Then there are the biotechs. There's more money going into drug research these days because all the age groups mentioned above want to live longer -- and are willing to pay for it. Cancer research, in particular, is a big area now. By investing in biotech now, you have a chance to get in early on the next wave of wonder drugs -- provided you're willing to take the chance. 

If you want some international diversification, go the emerging-markets route. There's obviously more risk, given the instability in the regions where these funds invest, but they have the best chance of providing outsized returns. 

Whatever course you choose, the value of your portfolio is probably so small at this point, there's little to lose and much to gain if you hold out for the long term. Plus, if things don't look like they're panning out in these higher-risk areas, you can get more conservative later in life. 

Just don't pay too much attention to the current market. This is important advice for investors of all ages, but especially for the youngest, who are accustomed to the up-to-the-second pace of the Internet. While it's prudent to watch the markets, particularly when there are so many factors weighing on your portfolio, there is such a thing as too much information. Review your statements quarterly, but try to avoid following the day-to-day movements of both the markets and the value of your retirement plan. 

"You're going to make yourself crazy if you look at it every day," says NLJones's Ms. Jones. 

--- 

Mr. Hennessey is a news editor for Dow Jones Newswires in New York. He can be reached at raymond.hennessey@dowjones.com. 

Document J000000020040719e07j00002


More Like This

 Article 391 *******************    



Technology Brief -- Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.: Plan Set to Invest $355 Million In Nanotechnology Center 

120 words 
20 July 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C13
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., one of the world's biggest electronics-contract manufacturers, plans to spend about $355 million over three years to build and equip a nanotechnology research and development center. The center will make products using nanotechnology for applications including computer displays and portable-computer batteries. The investment is a response to the Taiwan government's efforts to persuade companies to replace the labor-intensive manufacturing operations they have largely moved to China with higher-value activities such as research and design. Hon Hai, with revenue of nearly $11 billion last year, makes videogame consoles, cellphones and other goods for companies. 

Document J000000020040720e07k0000t


More Like This

 Article 392 *******************    


Features/FORTUNE Global 5 Hundred/Special: CEOs on ManagingGlobally

"No Innovation Can Replace Direct Discussions" 

Janet Guyon; Richard Tomlinson; Clay Chandler 
2,870 words 
26 July 2004
Fortune
167
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

That's what Samsung CEO Jong-Yong Yun, whose company prizes technology, says about understanding local markets. Going global has always been a tricky business. For many people, the emergence of a global economy has meant unprecedented wealth and unparalleled access to goods and services. A cosmetics brand born in Tennessee can become wildly popular in Shanghai. For those in business, however, globalization has brought unrelenting change and fierce competition. To find out how the best companies manage in a world that's getting smaller and more complicated, we asked five CEOs of FORTUNE Global 500 companies how they've stayed on top of the game. Whether based in Europe, the U.S., or Asia, they've successfully managed global businesses in everything from refrigerators to fragrances. Here's what they had to say. --Janet Guyon 

Lindsay Owen-Jones L'Oreal CEO SINCE 1988 

Global Makeover L'Oreal's 2003 sales: $15.9 billion 

Western Europe 53% North America 27% Rest of world 20% 

ON WHAT MAKES A GLOBAL BRAND: Ultimately it is a question of imagination and intuition in equal parts. It is intuition [when one asks] what do these brands have that just might seduce the world? But also in terms of imagination, what could they become to seduce the world? It took imagination to think that a nice, homey, very basic, user-friendly, popular, and cheap but really not sophisticated make-up line called Maybelline made in Memphis could become the hottest thing for young women in Shanghai. That is why this business is always looking for candidates who not only have basic business disciplines but also an ability to dream. We call them, in French, poetes et paysans. 

ON RESEARCHING MARKETS: We try to do a major market visit every month. Since the beginning of the year we've been to the U.S., Japan, Russia, Germany, and Brazil. Typically, the first day we will spend just visiting stores. That's an opportunity not just to look at the stores but to look at what women are wearing and what they've got in their shopping carts. You look at them buying all kinds of other things, not just our products. I usually like to have a quick look at the clothes department if it is a department store, or perhaps cereal or instant coffee if I'm in a supermarket. 

ON BEAUTY: Understanding what women want anywhere, including your home country, is a major challenge, especially in something as personal as beauty. People do not talk honestly of their aspirations. You knock on the door and say, "Do you have a secret aspiration to be a chic French woman?"--they would laugh you out of the door. The key words I would use are observation, cultural understanding, empathy, and intuition. These are probably more important than the traditional scientific marketing-research approaches. I think we are helped by our European heritage. Cultural diversity is an everyday factor of life. Our success in the U.S. has been heightened by our understanding and awareness of ethnic differences. Every new country you are successful in gives you an added dimension of understanding how the world is different. 

ON SETTING AN EXAMPLE: When you have spent a day tramping from morning to evening, and from store to store, eating sandwiches in a minibus as you go from one place to another, you are sending an unwritten message to teams everywhere in the world that the CEO is doing the same thing he expects them to do--which is for all of us to avoid [living] in some sort of ivory tower and to listen to our customers. 

ON LONG-TERM PLANNING: Everybody who manages a business at L'Oreal has a basic responsibility to the company to do what we [call] "a cow and a calves policy." You are responsible not only for managing profitably today's business but also for preparing what will be profitable many years after you have left that particular country or assignment. And you will be judged not only on your ability to produce the numbers now but on the credibility of the plans that will be there when you leave--to create businesses that one day will be the future. --Richard Tomlinson 

Charles O. Holliday DuPont CEO SINCE 1998 

Chemical Expansion DuPont's 2003 sales: $27.7 billion 

U.S. 45% Europe 28% Asia/Pacific 17% Rest of world 10% 

ON GLOBAL EXPANSION: Developing countries are growing more rapidly, but you need to make sure you're bringing in the right products and services at the right time. We have ways of looking at the economy in each country to see if it's ready for agricultural products, automotive products, or construction products. The metric we had going into a developing country was $1,000 GDP per capita, and that's still a general rule of thumb. But averages can be terrible in developing countries because they can be much different in the cities than in the country. You see that in China, where the differences in income are as wide as they can be between the coastal areas and the inner provinces. So we've done regional breakdowns. We look at Jakarta vs. the rest of Indonesia, for example. Jakarta might have a GDP of $1,500 per capita, yet the rest of the country is at $800. We might put in distribution around the major cities if we can't get it into the entire country yet. In China, we sell our Corian countertop material to the upper end. We also bought a producer of solid-surface countertop that's lower end. We're using our branding on it and all our technology to make it an even better lower-end product. 

ON CHINA: We see China as a big logistics and distribution challenge. We build smaller facilities close to our customers to maximize the logistics, as opposed to a big, cost-efficient plant. The other thing about China is they are turning out about 300,000 engineers a year, compared with 62,000 in the U.S., and they are technically just as good as our crop in the U.S. So we are doing more of our engineering in China. 

ON U.S. COMPETITIVENESS: The real test is if can we go to a higher level of knowledge-content products, which means more research and development around biotechnology and nanotechnology. If we are successful in leading the world in those sciences, then the U.S. is going to be very successful. If we can't, it's more problematic. Let's take genetically modified food, which is a big business for us. The U.S. is a world leader today. And the approvals from other parts of the world are starting to come in. Brazil and China are accepting genetically modified soybeans, for instance. It's a great example of how the U.S. is winning. 

ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: You need to pay attention to local customs and practices. In India, we wanted to do something good for a community where we were trying to build a plant. So we decided to put up a free clinic with a nurse and some over-the- counter medicines. We saw that as a big need. We then found that an activist group was pushing against our building the plant. Lo and behold, a local doctor was in the activist group. We weren't thoughtful enough about the fact that we were taking his business away by building a free clinic. How could we be so stupid? We ended up moving the plant to a different town. It's critical to have good people on the ground who know the customers. But we never compromise our ethical standards. We try to think local and resource global. -- Janet Guyon 

David Whitwam Whirlpool CEO SINCE 1987 

It's a Cool World Whirlpool's 2003 sales: $12.2 billion 

North America 64% Europe 22% Latin America 11% Asia 3% 

ON WHY WHIRLPOOL WENT GLOBAL: In the late 1980s we were the dominant player in the U.S. market, which was growing very slowly. Everyone had a refrigerator or a dishwasher. We faced a dilemma in getting growth. We didn't start with a global view; everyone said the appliance market was a local one. And we looked at a number of different alternatives on how we could create value, such as expanding into other industries. But we spent six to eight months looking at appliance markets around the world and came to the conclusion that the consumers and the technology weren't all that different. We felt we could design a platform that was common and would significantly reduce costs and increase our participation and ability to bring innovation to various markets. We came to the conclusion that the industry would become a global one and that someone had to shape it. Today we have about 15% of the global market, which is 40% more than our closest competitor. When we began we were a $3.5 billion company; we'll end this year with more than $13 billion in revenue. 

ON BRANDING: Today the Whirlpool brand is the No. 1 major- appliance brand in the world. But when we went to Europe, people had never heard of it. It was our view that there was a great advantage to global branding and that you could build it with the right advertising. You could build a loyal relationship with consumers in which they felt the brand was theirs, even though in many places they couldn't pronounce Whirlpool. But if you spend enough on advertising, they learn to. 

ON INNOVATION: Many people believe that the way to drive innovation is to carve out a few creative people. Our view is entirely different. We need innovation from everyone. We believe it is a skill that can be taught. So at the beginning of 2000 we began to embed innovation as a core competency of the company. Today close to 1,000 people have been through training to develop the skills of innovation. We've had more innovation in the past 18 months than in the 17 years I've been CEO. One prime example is the garage category. Most appliances are bought by women, but a group of employees wanted to expand the consumer base to men. So they created a set of products for the garage--flooring, appliances, cabinets. 

ON LEADERSHIP: Leading a company today is different from the 1980s and '90s, especially in a global company. It requires a new set of competencies. Bureaucratic structures don't work anymore. You have to take the command-and-control types out of the system. You need to allow and encourage broad-based involvement in the company. Especially in consumer kinds of companies, we need a diverse workforce with diverse leadership. You need strong regional leadership that lives in the culture. We have a North American running the North American business, and a Latin American running the Latin American business. We do have a North American running the European business, but at the lower levels we have no more than 30 to 35 expatriates. --Janet Guyon 

Tom McKillop AstraZeneca CEO SINCE 1999 

Pharmacopia AstraZeneca's 2003 sales: $18.9 billion 

U.S. 46% Europe 36% Japan 6% Rest of world 12% 

ON INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION: There is no sign that getting bigger leads to a better-quality business. GlaxoSmithKline is a product of a series of mergers, and there's no real evidence that it is a better-quality company. Our merger between Astra and Zeneca was different, because we were two medium-sized companies and we needed to get bigger for sales and marketing. We were totally committed to research and development. We've had an excellent flow of new products, and we've got a good pipeline. Our merger was not about cost cutting. 

ON THE COST OF R&D: R&D has been getting more expensive, and you do need to be big enough to afford the different technologies that will keep you competitive. But beyond a certain point you risk running a less efficient R&D business. You need speed and creativity. Those aren't attributes that you normally associate with big companies. 

ON GENERICS: There is a synergy, or symbiosis, between the generics industry and the innovative industry. Our industry depends fundamentally on intellectual property that is respected and protected. Otherwise people will not invest. At the end of the patent period it is natural that other competitors can come in, and that will bring the cost down dramatically to create economic headroom for innovation. What is worrying is if there is a premature attack on intellectually protected product. Then you take away the incentive for innovation. 

ON THE GRAY MARKET FOR CHEAP DRUGS: In Europe we have a single economic unit with free movement of goods between countries, which arbitrarily change and set prices. That has led to a downward pricing of drugs, which has been extremely negative for the industry and for R&D in Europe. And that has led to the U.S. being the big economic winner. Many European politicians realize this is crazy, because historically the pharmaceutical industry was the most successful industry in Europe. But it's been dramatically losing competitiveness to the U.S. In Canada we've had an artificial market, with high generic prices, while not rewarding companies for their in-novative drugs. If U.S. legislation is passed insisting on product availability through Canada, then no company could afford to launch a new product. 

ON THE SAFETY OF DRUGS BOUGHT ON THE INTERNET: The FDA has done a study in which it ordered products from Internet sites. Eighty percent of the products had something wrong with them, or were mislabeled or improperly stored. Companies are legally liable for their products. But if we don't know where the product has been, how can we be liable? We are heading into very dangerous waters here. The flow of product that has been counterfeited with no active ingredient is increasing. Very loose distribution systems are highly dangerous. --Janet Guyon 

Jong-Yong Yun Samsung Electronics CEO SINCE 1999 

Brand Power Samsung's 2003 sales: $36.4 billion* 

Korea 21.3% Rest of Asia 34.9% U.S. 20.4% Europe 22.9% Africa 0.5% 

* Unconsolidated 

ON SOUTH KOREA'S SUCCESS: While it is true that the West has viewed Korea as a quiet and closed country, the nation has [entrusted its] destiny [to] being an export nation since the industrialization of the 1970s, because of the shortage of natural resources and limited size of the domestic market. Because of these constraints, Samsung Electronics, since its establishment in 1969, has manufactured products not with the aim to sell in the domestic market but for export to the overseas market. Currently 83% of our sales are derived through exports, and we operate approximately 100 offices for production, sales, distribution, and R&D in 50 countries throughout the world. 

ON MANAGING GLOBALLY: The key to monitoring the progress of the entire company is in setting the right incentives, controls, and standardized processes in the corporate environment. At Samsung each division is empowered through a system called the Global Business Manager. Implemented several years ago, this system places responsibility on the division head for the profits generated. At the same time, the head is given the flexibility to make prudent decisions, which are crucial for the division's advancement. 

ON COMMUNICATING: I spend much of my time visiting our domestic and overseas work sites to examine operations from the ground, receiving face-to-face reports and indicating areas for improvement. This gives me the opportunity to freely discuss matters with the person directly involved, from the top management to the junior staff of that work site. While many people believe that developments in digital technology have brought convenience in managing a global business, I still believe that no innovation can replace the valuable information that is gathered through direct discussions. 

ON GLOBAL BRANDING: The Samsung Electronics brand needs to be managed in a unified manner and maintained consistently for the mid- to long-term. The company produces and sells a variety of products that must be unified under the premium-brand positioning that we are seeking. Prior to Samsung's decision to manage the brand image through a central organization, many of the marketing activities were localized to the region. What we found was dilution of the brand and a misconception of the corporate identity. --Clay Chandler 

See also introduction on page 159 of same issue 

COLOR ILLUSTRATION: ON THE COVER/THIS ILLUSTRATION BY HANS MOLLER APPEARED ON THE COVER OF FORTUNE IN JANUARY 1945. COLOR PHOTO OWEN-JONES of L'Oreal COLOR PHOTO HOLLIDAY of DuPont COLOR PHOTO WHITWAM of Whirlpool COLOR PHOTO MCKILLOP of AstraZeneca COLOR PHOTO YUN of Samsung COLOR PHOTO: JILLIAN EDELSTEIN TWO COLOR PHOTOS: ROBERT WRIGHT COLOR PHOTO: KIHO PARK--KISTONE COLOR PHOTO FIVE COLOR CHARTS 


Document FORTU00020040713e07q00008


More Like This

 Article 393 *******************    



The Great Innovators

The Light Fantastic Lasers have transformed medicine, computers, telecom, and electronics 

By Adam Aston 
507 words 
2 August 2004
BusinessWeek
14
Volume 3894
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

As part of its anniversary celebration, BusinessWeek is presenting a series of weekly profiles of the greatest innovators of the past 75 years. Some made their mark in science or technology; others in management, finance, marketing, or government. In late September, 2004, BusinessWeek will publish a special commemorative issue on Innovation. 

The story of the laser begins with some eye trouble. It was 1937, and Charles H. Townes, a first-year grad student at California Institute of Technology, faced a tough decision: pursue theoretical physics, a field then electrified by Einstein's ideas, or go into experimental physics, where he would build machines to test theories. 

``My eyes were bothering me,'' Townes recalled in a recent phone interview. ``A doctor said it was all the reading I was doing.'' Working with instruments instead of formulas, he figured, would save his sight. That choice took him down a path others had overlooked -- one that led to devices that emit brilliant beams of light. ``Initially, many theoreticians doubted this was possible,'' he says, including Niels Bohr and computer pioneer John von Neumann. Townes patented the laser in 1959 and won a Nobel prize five years later. 

He was educated in the presence of greatness. At CalTech, Townes rubbed shoulders with J. Robert Oppenheimer, Nobel laureate Linus Pauling, and a half-dozen other future Nobel winners. With a newly minted PhD, he toiled during the war years at Bell Labs beside transistor co-inventors William B. Shockley and Walter H. Brattain, developing early radar systems. 

Townes joined Columbia University's faculty in 1948 to research how microwaves might help reveal the structure of molecules. All he really sought was a new scientific tool, but what he invented revolutionized science. In 1951 he realized that stimulating molecules with microwaves -- and amplifying the effect in a special chamber -- could trigger a chain reaction leading to the emission of an unusually pure, concentrated beam of radiation. Three years later, Townes and his grad students fired up a machine that produced the desired beam. They called it a MASER, for microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. Townes shared the 1964 Nobel for it with two Soviet scientists who were doing related research. 

In 1958, Townes and his brother-in-law, Arthur L. Schawlow, adapted his theory to show that visible light could replace microwaves. But the first lasers were built by others, and Townes's laser patent was later challenged by an ex-student, Gordon Gould. 

At 89, Townes is still doing research -- and his eyes are just fine. In recent years he has focused on astronomy, using lasers to help combine images from distant telescopes, effectively creating a huge virtual lens. Although the killer applications didn't materialize for many years, his lasers have transformed medicine, telecommunications, consumer electronics, and computing, and they're part of the emerging toolkit for nanotech. Laser surgery, Townes notes, has even saved the sight of some of his friends. 

Document BW00000020040729e0820000j


More Like This

 Article 394 *******************    



Deals & Deal Makers
IPO Outlook:

Firm Hasn't Sold a Product; Memories of Biotech Offers 

By Raymond Hennessey Dow Jones Newswires 
350 words 
2 August 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C5
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Investors are being asked to make a leap of faith on the potential for small products. 

This week, Nanosys Inc. goes public, selling 6.25 million shares at $15 to $17 apiece in an initial public offering through Merrill Lynch & Co. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. There has been much hype among analysts about the Nanosys IPO, mostly because the company is one of the few ways to play the potential growth of nanotechnology. 

Nanotechnology involves engineering tiny structures and materials at the atomic scale. While the potential is there, the products aren't. This is so even as Nanosys comes public having never actually sold a product. It's a development-stage company with deep losses, just 43 employees and a handful of collaboration agreements with companies. 

"It's like a biotech offering, more or less, but with broader applications," said Paul Bard, an analyst with IPO Plus Aftermarket Fund, a mutual fund based in Greenwich, Conn. 

Residential mortgage lender MortgageIT Holdings Inc. and battery maker EnerSys Inc. made their debuts Friday. 

MortgageIT, based in New York, had cut terms in late June, to an IPO sold at $12 a share, from one priced between $14 and $16 apiece. But it was forced to postpone the IPO and revive it a month later. 

Indeed, the company was able to sell 14.6 million shares at $12 each late Thursday through UBS AG's UBS Investment Bank. But the price cut wasn't enough to attract buyers once trading began, with the shares closing flat with their offering price Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. 

EnerSys, too, had a tough time. The company, which makes batteries used to power forklifts or backup-power supplies, sold 12.5 million shares at $12.50 each, well below estimates of $15 to $17 a share. Still, the shares closed flat Friday in NYSE trading. EnerSys, based in Reading, Pa., went public through Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers. 

Document J000000020040802e0820001u


More Like This

 Article 395 *******************    



Deals & Deal Makers

Big Day for IPOs Isn't Quite as Big As Firms Get Shy --- Up to 10 Deals Were at Bat Before Offerings Got Pulled And Pricing Terms Shrank 

By Raymond Hennessey Dow Jones Newswires 
661 words 
5 August 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C5
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Coming into yesterday, companies had high hopes they could take part in what would have been the busiest day for new-stock issuance since the height of the technology-stock boom. 

Apparently, they never checked with investors. 

Two companies pulled their initial public offerings of stock yesterday, and more were expected to cut terms ahead of their own deals, deflating chances that as many as 10 IPOs could come to market today. That would have been the most active day for IPOs since Feb. 12, 1998, according to data from Thomson Financial in New York. 

Two closely watched offerings were among the casualties. Nanotechnology company Nanosys Inc., which was trying to raise $100 million through Merrill Lynch & Co. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., announced it wouldn't proceed with its deal, citing adverse market conditions. Empi Inc., a medical-device maker based in St. Paul, Minn., also won't proceed with its deal. The company had been trying to sell 8.4 million shares at $14 to $16 a share through Lehman Brothers and J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 

Two other companies expected today -- PlanetOut Inc., a Web site for gays and lesbians, and PRN Corp., a company that runs in-store advertising television networks -- cut price terms on their offerings leading up to their deals. 

Despite the attention over next week's planned IPO of Google Inc., it has actually been a lackluster market for IPOs, with the majority of companies holding offerings in July pricing their deals below estimates. It is likely several of the IPO candidates for today will either cut their prices or postpone their offerings until conditions improve, said John Fitzgibbon Jr., an IPO analyst based in Jersey City, N.J. 

"Fish don't like to swim upstream," he said. 

There is a range of sectors represented by today's planned IPOs, reflecting a diversity in the IPO market that has been the rule for the past 12 months. Unlike in past periods, where areas like technology or biotechnology dominated IPO issuance, no one sector has taken a leadership position for domestic IPOs. 

The largest deal could come from Symmetry Medical Inc., an orthopedic-implant maker based in Warsaw, Ind., which is selling 10 million shares at $14 to $16 a share through Bank of America Corp.'s Banc of America Securities and Credit Suisse Group's Credit Suisse First Boston. CSFB is also leading a $148 million IPO for truck-parts maker Commercial Vehicle Group Inc. 

Among the other offerings trying raise more than $100 million is PRN, which is selling seven million shares at $13 to $15 a share through Lehman Brothers. 

Other deals are smaller -- and could get even smaller if they have to price the offerings to sell. PlanetOut, for instance, entered the week trying to sell 4.65 million shares at $12 to $14 each. Now, the company hopes to sell its shares at $9-$11. Societe Generale's SG Cowen Securities and W.R. Hambrecht & Co. are leading the IPO. Another high-tech company also plans to make its trading debut today: RightNow Technologies Inc., which makes customer-relations software, plans to sell 6.6 million shares at $9 to $11 through Morgan Stanley and Thomas Weisel Partners. 

The last three IPO hopefuls for today are all in the health-care field. Medical-instruments company Stereotaxis Inc. is trying to sell 6.5 million shares at $14 to $16 through Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. Drug maker New River Pharmaceuticals is planning to raise $50.4 million in an IPO led by W.R. Hambrecht. Finally, Israel-based medical-device maker Syneron Medical Ltd. is planning to raise $82.5 million through Citigroup Inc. 

Document J000000020040805e0850001u


More Like This

 Article 396 *******************    



What's News
Business and Finance

Business and Finance 

503 words 
5 August 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

AT&T SAID it is considering writing off the value of some of its $43.8 billion in assets. The move follows the company's decision last week to retreat from the consumer-telephone market. It also comes as many industry observers expect that AT&T could become a takeover target. 

--- 

Oil futures fell $1.32 to $42.83 a barrel on a greater-than-expected rise in gasoline and distillate inventories and plans by OPEC to add crude to the market. 

--- 

The Dow industrials closed just 6.27 points higher at 10126.51 after seesawing on oil-price moves. 

Nanosys withdrew its IPO, damping Wall Street's expectations for nanotechnology firms. 

--- 

InterActiveCorp's shares slid 16% in heavy trading after Barry Diller's online-commerce group reported disappointing results. 

--- 

Eliot Spitzer accused pharmacy-benefit manager Express Scripts of defrauding New York state by inflating the cost of drugs. 

Bristol-Myers agreed to pay $150 million to settle SEC charges of accounting fraud involving $1.5 billion of inflated revenue. 

--- 

Brazil claimed that the WTO has declared that the EU's sugar-subsidy program violates international trade agreements. 

--- 

EDS is dragging out payments and asking suppliers to accept lower fees on a Navy contract, trying to halt a drain on cash. 

--- 

Delta's pilots-union head denounced a plan by the airline's management that seeks $1 billion a year in concessions. 

--- 

A Japanese court upheld a ban on UFJ holding takeover talks with Mitsubishi Tokyo, keeping the bank deal in limbo. 

--- 

BMW's net rose 18%, powered by hot-selling new models and demonstrating its lead over Mercedes in the luxury-car market. 

Chrysler said it expects a more difficult second half after reporting a surge in second-quarter operating profit last week. 

--- 

Lilly won FDA approval for Cymbalta, a "dual action" antidepressant that is expected to be a blockbuster for the drug firm. 

--- 

The NIH declined to force Abbott to roll back a fivefold price rise for Norvir, an AIDS drug funded in part by public money. 

--- 

Microsoft is delaying the release of an update to Windows XP expected to address security concerns with the operating system. 

--- 

Credit Suisse pledged to improve profitability as earnings at its CSFB unit rose from a year ago but slid from the first quarter. 

--- 

China scrapped a rule that limited foreign banks to opening a single branch a year. 

--- 

Markets -- 

Stocks:NYSE vol.1,368,843,160 shares, Nasdaq vol.1,624,996,668. 

DJ industrials10126.51, 6.27; 

Nasdaq composite1855.06, 4.36; 

S&P 500 index1098.63, 1.06. 

Bonds (4 p.m.):10-yr Treasury 1/32, yld 4.431%; 30-yr Treasury 1/32, yld 5.171%. 

Dollar:111.19 yen, +0.61; euro $1.2045, -0.08 cent against the dollar. 

Commodities:Oil futures $42.83 a barrel, $1.32; Gold (Comex) $392.20 per troy ounce, 1.80; Dow Jones-AIG futures 144.126, 2.051. 

Document J000000020040805e08500036


More Like This

 Article 397 *******************    



Deals & Deal Makers

Nanosys Pulls IPO, Putting Nanotech Revolution on Hold 

By Antonio Regalado and Raymond Hennessey 
954 words 
5 August 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

THE NANOTECH IPO boom looks as if it will have to wait. 

Yesterday, Nanosys Inc. withdrew its initial public offering that was seeking to raise $100 million. The decision damps expectations for a Wall Street rush to cash in on nanotechnology, a new approach in manufacturing that involves ultra-small materials and electronic devices. 

The abrupt withdrawal of the IPO, which was to be led by Merrill Lynch & Co. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., could make it tougher to take other nanotechnology companies public. Several firms, including Nanofilm Ltd., had been hoping the Nanosys IPO would signal strong interest from investors. 

"It's not a good sign," said Tom Taulli, manager of the Oceanus Value Fund, a hedge fund in Newport Beach, Calif. "If this company couldn't make it, no one else can." 

The Palo Alto, Calif., company's futuristic technology had rated mixed reviews ahead of its planned offering. Although some investors have been in a swoon over nanotechnology, Nanosys has drawn criticism for trying to go public without any profits and vague product plans. 

In the end, positive sentiment about nanotechnology's first pure-play IPO wasn't enough to interest large institutional investors, Mr. Taulli said. Bankers close to the deal confirmed demand for the issue was weak. 

Still, Nanosys' withdrawal may say less about nanotechnology than it does about investors' wariness concerning development-stage companies. Several biotechnology companies, which also have limited sales and mounting losses, have been able to price deals, but only after taking substantial price cuts to stimulate investor demand. 

Overall, the IPO market has been edgy. More than half the companies than went public in July, for instance, were forced to sell their shares below expectations, according to data from Thomson Financial in New York. As such, Nanosys' pullout "is less an indictment of nanotechnology, than a sign of how tough it is for any company in an early stage of development right now," said Joe Hammer, head of capital markets at Adams, Harkness & Hill in Boston. 

Nanosys was trying to sell 6.25 million shares at $15 to $17 a share. Based on the midpoint of that range, and the 21.9 million shares the company would have outstanding after the deal, the IPO was valuing Nanosys at $350.4 million, or more than 100 times last year's revenue of $3 million. Revenue doubled in the first six months of this year, to $2.5 million, from $1.2 million in the year-earlier period, but the possibility of profits remains far off. 

Another company that has been named as a hot IPO prospect is Nano-Tex LLC, a division of International Textile Group of Greensboro, N.C. The company's chemistry is used in Dockers pants and other apparel to make them water-resistant. Nano-Tex Chief Executive Donn Tice says his company doesn't have firm plans to go public, but he believes the market would be receptive to a company with growing product revenue. 

The Nanosys offering had made headlines after Vinod Khosla, a partner at venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, was quoted as saying he feared nanotechnology was turning into an Internet-style bubble, and that the Nanosys offering could "defraud" investors. Mr. Khosla later backed away from his remarks, saying he was referring to the industry generally, not a specific company. But the damage was done, drawing attention to the lack of product details in Nanosys' registration filing. 

Still, Nanosys had piqued nanotechnology interest on Wall Street. The company's roadshow encouraged some investors that nanotechnology is a field with major potential. Company Chairman Lawrence Bock's PowerPoint presentations included ideas for products that could revolutionize several different industries, including energy and computing. 

The company marketed itself mainly on the strength of a big portfolio of patents licensed from universities. Mr. Bock, a venture capitalist, had early on signed up big-name professors at Harvard University and other schools and acquired rights to inventions from those labs. 

Nanosys investors included many key promoters of nanotechnology, such as Harris & Harris Group Inc., whose stock was down 9% yesterday. Other investors include Lux Capital, which co-publishes with Forbes Inc. the Forbes/Wolfe Nanotech Report, a publication that markets nanotechnology stocks to investors. 

Some people familiar with the IPO also questioned whether Merrill had pushed the deal too aggressively. The securities firm has been trying to get out front on nanotechnology, launching a nanotech stock index earlier this year. A Merrill spokesman declined to comment. 

Nanotechnology remains difficult to define, causing additional uncertainties for investors. Typically, the term refers to man-made structures less than 100-billionths of a meter in size that have special electronic or structural properties. But some companies have used the nanotechnology label to hype unrelated products, while many real advances are occurring inside big companies, such as Intel, where the developments have only a modest impact on stock prices. The Nanosys offering would have given investors their first chance to invest directly in some of the most promising aspects of nanotechnology. 

Other companies angling to cash in on the nanotechnology buzz expressed disappointment that the offering had been withdrawn. "It's not good news for the industry, particularly given their publicity and their patent portfolio," said CEO Scott Rickert of Nanofilm, a company that sells chemical films to protect eyeglasses with revenue of about $15 million. 

After Nanosys' IPO registration, Nanofilm became one of several small private firms courted by bankers. Mr. Rickert thinks his firm's IPO prospects remain strong. "We still have a lot of interest from the Street." 

Document J000000020040805e0850002t


More Like This

 Article 398 *******************    



Career Journal: Who's News 

915 words 
10 August 2004
The Wall Street Journal
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Wet Seal Is Dealt Fresh Blow 

With Loss of Creative Director 

In another blow to its turnaround efforts, beleaguered teen retailer Wet Seal Inc. said Creative Director Victor Alfaro is stepping down. The news sent the company's stock down steeply for the second time in a week, after a previous plunge on the announcement of disappointing same-store sales. 

The resignation removes a key element of Wet Seal's plan to bounce back from years of sagging sales as teen tastes have shifted to competitors. A former couture designer, Mr. Alfaro was hired last August to design fashion-conscious apparel that would bring fickle teenage girls back to the mall-based chain. Dubbed "Granny Chic," Mr. Alfaro's back-to-school line started trickling into stores on July 12. 

The resignation raised eyebrows in the industry and sent the stock plunging 28% to $1.77 on the Nasdaq market. 

"This does not change our strategy of creating a unique fashion statement for our target customer by bringing together market goods with merchandise that has been designed in-house," said Wet Seal division president Allan Haims in a statement. 

The company, based in Foothill Ranch, Calif., reiterated its earnings guidance for the second quarter ended July 31, saying it expects to be at the high end of its previously stated loss of 53 cents to 57 cents a share. Wet Seal will report earnings for the quarter on Aug. 19. 

Wet Seal also announced the appointment of Gary White to senior vice president of stores and operations. Mr. White is a former chief executive of Gymboree Corp. 

-- Stephanie Kang 

--- 

CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL Inc. (Cincinnati) -- This international marketer, producer and distributor of bananas and other fresh produce said James B. Riley, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will leave the company at the end of August. The company said the search for a new CFO has been under way since January and is near a conclusion. A company spokesman said Mr. Riley, 52 years old, didn't wish to discuss future plans while at Chiquita. 

--- 

COOPER INDUSTRIES Ltd. (Houston) -- This manufacturer of electrical products, tools and hardware named Kirk S. Hachigian president and board member. He succeeds H. John Riley Jr. as president. Mr. Riley, 63, will continue as chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Hachigian, 45, will continue to serve as chief operating officer, a position he assumed in November 2003. 

--- 

DONALDSON Co. (Minneapolis) -- This provider of filtration systems and replacement parts named William Cook president and chief executive officer. He succeeds Bill Van Dyke, 59, who will remain chairman until his planned retirement in August 2005. Mr. Cook, 50, was chief financial officer and senior vice president, international. Tom Verhage succeeded Mr. Cook as chief financial officer and became a vice president in March 2004. 

--- 

ENGINEERED SUPPORT SYSTEMS Inc. (St. Louis) -- Gerald A. Potthoff has been appointed vice chairman and chief executive officer of this military-electronics and support-equipment company. Mr. Potthoff, 64, was chief operating officer and will continue as president. He succeeds Gerald E. Daniels, 58, who will retire. The company said Mr. Daniels plans to devote more time to the business boards and charitable organizations with which he is involved. 

--- 

IMATION Corp. (Oakdale, Minn.) -- Paul R. Zeller was named chief financial officer and vice president of this data-storage media company. Mr. Zeller, 44, was corporate controller and vice president. He succeeds Robert Edwards, 48, who left the company in August 2003 to become executive vice president and finance chief at Maxtor Corp. and is currently chief financial officer at Safeway Inc. 

--- 

INFOCUS Corp. (Wilsonville, Ore.) -- Kyle Ranson was named chief executive officer of this digital-projection hardware manufacturer, effective Sept. 1. Mr. Ranson, 43, who has held executive-level positions at Compaq Computer Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co., will succeed John V. Harker, 70, who will continue as chairman. 

--- 

LOCKHEED MARTIN Corp. (Bethesda, Md.) -- The aerospace company elected Robert J. Stevens president and chief executive officer. Mr. Stevens, 52, was previously president and chief operating officer. He succeeds Vance Coffman, 60, who had previously announced his intention to retire and will continue as chairman until April 2005. Also, Christopher E. Kubasik was elected executive vice president. Mr. Kubasik, 43, will continue to serve as chief financial officer and was previously senior vice president. A company spokesman said there are no plans to name a new chief operating officer at this time. 

--- 

NANOSYS Inc. (Palo Alto, Calif.) -- Peter S. Garcia, 43, was named to the new post of chief financial officer of this nanotechnology company, effective July 26. Prior to joining Nanosys, Mr. Garcia was senior vice president and chief financial officer of Nuvelo Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. 

--- 

TOPPS Co. (New York) -- This confectionery and entertainment-products company appointed Scott A. Silverstein president and chief operating officer. Mr. Silverstein, 43, was executive vice president. He succeeds Arthur T. Shorin, 69, as president. Mr. Shorin will continue as chairman and CEO. 

--- 

WHIRLPOOL Corp. (Benton Harbor, Mich.) -- This home-appliance company elected Roy Templin, 43, chief financial officer and executive vice president, effective Sept. 1. Mr. Templin, 43, was company controller. He succeeds R. Stephen Barrett Jr., 51, who is resigning. The company said Mr. Barrett's decision to resign from Whirlpool reflects a recent change in his family situation. Mr. Barrett was not available to comment. 

--- 

Compiled by Jon Vuocolo 

--- 

Journal Link: For a searchable database of Who's News items go to CareerJournal.com. 

Document J000000020040810e08a0000q


More Like This

 Article 399 *******************    



Information Technology: Investing: COMMENTARY

`Please God, Just One More Bubble'; Giddiness is creeping back into the tech sector. It's time for a reality check 

By Robert D. Hof 
1,200 words 
16 August 2004
BusinessWeek
56
Volume 3896
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Chastened by the tech bust, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs have spent the last couple of years taking startups back to basics. No longer could they expect to turn an idea scribbled on a napkin into an instant company and cash out in a couple of years. To get funding and go public, companies had to have solid technology and business models, experienced management, reasonable valuations -- and, above all, profits. This reassuring regime made it easy to laugh at a bumper sticker sighted around the Valley last year: ``Please God, just one more bubble.'' 

Now, it looks less like a joke than a warning. Too many tech investors, from Wall Street to Sand Hill Road, seem to be ignoring why they crashed after the 1990s hit a dead end. Venture capitalists are pouring money into look-alike startups in nascent sectors such as social networking. Even after a recent swoon, stocks of some dot-coms, such as eBay Inc., look pricey. And not only are more money-losing companies going public, initial valuations can be distinctly frothy. Google Inc.'s imminent offering, for instance, could value the search engine phenom at $36 billion. Says Bill Burnham, managing partner of the VC firm Softbank Capital Partners: ``Some people expect the good old days will be back and they can party like it's 1999.'' 

Understandably, people in tech are eager to get in gear after idling for so long by the curb. There's also good reason for optimism: Tech spending is expected to rise at least 6% this year, the most since 2000. Plus, periodic spasms of excess can spark true successes, so getting just a little nuts ultimately may be healthy for the tech industry. Notes Reed Hastings, chief executive of the online DVD rental service Netflix Inc.: ``It's out of this stage in the venture cycle that you get the Ciscos and the Microsofts.'' 

Nonetheless, when even some cheerleaders of the last boom are worried that they're falling back into bad old habits, it's time to take heed. That's especially true at a time when momentum in some tech sectors could be slowing. Otherwise, we may see more nasty surprises like those that hit Internet companies in late July. Just a penny shy of analysts' estimates, for instance, Amazon.com Inc. saw its stock plunge 13% on July 23. ``The enthusiasm has gotten ahead of the fundamentals,'' says Julie Farris, founder of e-mail startup Scalix Corp. So it's worth taking a closer look at the danger signals flashing in tech. 

Let's start with the VCs. At least $50 billion committed to their funds has yet to be invested, even as more money is starting to pour into new funds. All that money is burning a hole in investors' pockets. That's why a few areas, such as nanotechnology, antispam software, and social networking sites, are starting to smoke -- worrying even some VCs. Says Vinod Khosla, general partner with the VC firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers in Menlo Park, Calif.: ``Valuations are going higher, and some are starting to get irrational.'' 

Nowhere is that more apparent than in the 200 or so social networking sites, such as Friendster, Tribe Networks, and LinkedIn, which help people find dates, friends, and jobs. You know something is askew when you see marginal sites such as HAMSTERster, for fans of the rodent, and Swappster.com, a swinger exchange. Such sites have logged little revenue, and it's unclear how they'll turn a profit, but that hasn't stopped VCs from investing $100 million or more in at least a dozen of them. ``Social networking is probably the most overinvested venture-capital area,'' Kleiner general partner L. John Doerr said earlier this year. He should know: His firm has put more than $10 million into two companies, Visible Path Corp. and Friendster Inc. The latter was valued at more than $50 million at the last funding round late last year, though it had virtually no revenues. 

And even with the tech-heavy NASDAQ exchange down 6% this year, the expectations of public investors may still be too high. At the recent Innovation Summit held by the online tech network AlwaysOn at Stanford University, two VCs and two investment bankers sat on a panel entitled ``Is the Bubble Back?'' Asked if they think the public markets are overvalued, all four raised their hands. ``People don't understand the business models of the companies we're taking to market,'' conceded panelist Janice Roberts, a general partner with the VC firm Mayfield. 

Smelling Blood 

INDEED, THE RISE IN shaky initial public offerings may be the most worrisome indicator that not all investors have learned their lesson. Some 44% of the companies going public so far this year were losing money, compared with only 30% last year, according to the investment bank Renaissance Capital. ``They've lowered the bar,'' says Renaissance analyst Paul Bard. Why? ``The VCs are pushing their companies to go out,'' says Jef Graham, CEO of networking startup Peribit Networks Inc., which has held off going public for now. ``Bankers are like sharks smelling blood in the water.'' 

Investors are starting to question the rush to go public. One high-profile IPO by nanotechnology leader Nanosys Inc. was withdrawn on Aug. 4 thanks to ``adverse market conditions.'' Yet speculative issues remain on the docket. San Diego-based operating software firm Linspire Inc., for instance, announced in April plans for an IPO despite losing $1.6 million on just $1 million in first-quarter sales. Then there's Google. Despite its undeniable success and profitability, its valuation looks excessive. At $36 billion, it would be worth more than Ford Motor, Nike, or Caterpillar -- and almost as much as Yahoo! Inc., which has much greater experience and diversity. And the Risk Factors section in Google's prospectus runs a boggling 12,500 words. 

Despite all those warning signs, it's hard to imagine people will get as wild and crazy as they did in the late 1990s. They had better not. With the devastation of the last bust still working its way out of the market, it's no time for folks in tech to blow it again. 


 Warning Signs

 Despite the boom and bust, some people in tech are getting carried away again as the industry continues its recovery.

 VENTURE CAPITAL
 Some emerging tech sectors, from nanotech to social networking, are starting to overheat. The nearly 200 social networking sites on the Web show little evidence of profitable business models.

 INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS
 Big first-day pops in some IPOs have returned, even as 44% of companies going public so far this year are losing money, up from 30% last year.

 STOCK MARKET
 Although the tech-heavy NASDAQ is down 6% so far this year, pockets of froth are appearing. Amazon.com's stock is up 26% so far this year.

 Data: Renaissance Capital and BusinessWeek

  

photograph | Photograph: IPO AHEAD Linspire CEO Michael Robertson PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCES M. ROBERTS 


Document BW00000020040812e08g0000f


More Like This

 Article 402 *******************    



International

More Taiwan Firms Seek Limelight 

By Jason Dean 
963 words 
1 September 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A10
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Taipei, Taiwan -- FOR YEARS, FEW consumers besides computer buffs had heard of Asustek Computer Inc., even though it is a major player in the global technology industry and one of Taiwan's biggest manufacturers. The company toiled successfully but quietly making motherboards, the glamorless circuit-covered cards that house microprocessors and other key parts in personal computers. 

Now, Asustek is bent on making a name for itself. It has built an award-winning team of industrial designers. Eye-catching notebook computers and other consumer products, sold under its own brand as well as others, are expected to drive revenue growth of 20% to 30% this year. 

"We would like to become one of the best-known high-tech companies in the world," Chairman Jonney Shih says, speaking in Asustek's gleaming new office tower outside Taipei, down the road from the squat concrete building that used to be its headquarters. 

Across Taiwan, companies that long worked in obscurity making much of the world's gadgetry for other companies are beefing up their ability to create and market those products themselves. They are looking to product design and technological innovation to make them stronger competitors at a time when the industry is increasingly cutthroat -- and competition looms from low-cost manufacturers in China. 

The Taiwan government is encouraging the trend. Having watched the island's technology companies shift their manufacturing and jobs to China in recent years, Taipei wants them to keep their roots in Taiwan by building higher-value businesses at home. 

"The government knows that Taiwan's economic future is going to depend on brain power," says Tony K.M. Chang, chief executive of the Taiwan Design Center, set up this year with government and corporate funding. 

A few Taiwan companies have sought for years to develop internationally known brand names -- notably Taiwan computer pioneer Acer Inc., which surpassed big brands like IBM and Toshiba to become the second-best-selling notebook PC brand in Europe, after Hewlett-Packard. Now Acer increasingly is being joined by other companies from Taiwan that are racking up design prizes and gaining market share. Many aim to emulate Samsung Electronics Co. of South Korea, using sharp design to leverage their contract manufacturing business into a global brand. 

Companies also are expanding research and development to propel themselves up the value chain. Computer-parts maker Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Taiwan's biggest private manufacturer, broke ground in July on a $355 million R&D facility near Taipei to develop nanotechnology. Quanta Computer Inc., the world's biggest notebook PC maker, is spending close to $3.7 billion over five years on its new R&D and design facility. 

For Taiwanese executives, moving beyond low-cost manufacturing is vital for a profitable future. The island's companies already make three-quarters of the world's notebook computers, more than 80% of all motherboards, plus a growing share of flat-screen displays and other gadgets. 

But profits are under constant pressure. Customers can play suppliers against each other to get the lowest price. Merrill Lynch estimates that Taiwan contract manufacturers' gross profit margins for notebook PCs will slip to 4% to 7% next year, from 6% to 9% in 2003. 

"If what you can do your competitors can also do, then it's no use," Mr. Shih of Asustek says. "[We must] be able to differentiate from our competitors." 

The emphasis on product design in recent years is new to Taiwan's technology companies, which long have made cost cutting their mantra. They have had strong engineering teams for years, but they mainly worked with foreign partners to configure components. Industrial designers, by contrast, have to think about what combination of shapes, colors, features and materials will make a product fly off the shelves. "Now we have to look at technology from the consumer's point of view," says Eric Chang, head of design at Asustek. 

Asustek has won design prizes in Japan and Europe, most recently Germany's Red Dot award for its aluminium-cased W1000 notebook, with a built-in TV tuner and surround sound. 

BenQ Corp.'s 15-inch flat-screen monitor earned a bronze medal in the computer-equipment category at this year's Industrial Design Excellence Awards in the U.S. 

Taiwan companies still have plenty of distance to go to catch design leaders. For one, salaries are low. While the pay for top industrial designers at Taiwan companies has roughly doubled in the past five years, executives say, it still is about half as much as what top designers at multinational technology companies earn. 

Another problem for Taiwan companies building their own brand: the risk of competing with their contract customers. Asustek, wary of alienating its contract customers, does relatively little advertising for its PCs. Still, Asustek now sells about half of the notebooks it makes under its own Asus brand, which is No. 1 in Taiwan and growing quickly in Asia and Europe. 

The trend even has caught the attention of a not-so-high-tech company: Diageo PLC. A Taiwan ad campaign for its Johnnie Walker whiskey touts local inventions such as the automatic-flushing sensor now ubiquitous in public toilets, and an animated green stick figure that walks under pedestrian-traffic signals, accelerating as the light is about to change. "Created in Taiwan," the ads' captions say. 

It is a change from last year, when Diageo triggered fury in Taiwan by running ads in London mocking the island as a source of shoddy products. David Chang, Diageo's marketing manager in Taiwan, says the new ad campaign isn't aimed just at making amends. 

"We recognize that Taiwan is in evolution, migrating to a new stage," he says. 

Document J000000020040901e09100014


More Like This

 Article 403 *******************    



Nanofear; Pat Mooney stirred up hornet's nest for biotech. Will he do the same for nanotechnology? 

Michael Freedman 
1,065 words 
6 September 2004
Forbes
168
Volume 173 Issue 17
English
(c) 2004 Forbes Inc. 

Pat Mooney stirred up a hornet's nest for biotech. Will he do the same for nanotechnology? 

The science of small might have a big problem. His name is Pat R. Mooney, and he is a high school dropout from Canada with no scientific training. Yet his Ottawa organization, the ETC Group, is widely credited with being one of the first to raise health and environmental concerns about genetically modified food. Its efforts, along with those of other outfits like Greenpeace, led to a public relations fiasco for the biotech industry. In Europe the name Monsanto, which sells genetically modified seed, still exemplifies the ugly American multinational. Because of the fear Mooney helped generate, Nestlé and others don't sell food with GM ingredients in Europe. Restaurants post signs assuring customers meals are virtually GM-free. 

Now Mooney, 57, has set his target on nanotechnology, the business of manufacturing on a molecular scale. Nanoparticles are already used in drugs, cosmetics, food additives and baby products. Nanotech has brought us the mundane--Eddie Bauer's $49.50 Nano-Care khakis that resist stains and wrinkles--but also promises profound advances like cancer drugs that hunt through your body for tiny tumors. 


 It's Everywhere, Even Inside Slacks   
 Nanotechnology allows scientists to build at the atomic level, 
creating entirely new objects or enhancing what's already there.   
 PRODUCT                        WHAT'S NANO ABOUT IT   
 Eddie BauerNano-Care Khakis    Molecular structures form barrier between cotton fibers   
 KodakEasyShare LS633           Digital camera with bright, crisp and 
 	low-powered nanostructured organic 
	light-emitting diode (OLED) display.   
 Chevrolet Impala               2004 model saves on fuel with 
	lightweight nanocomposite 
	materials on body side moldings.   
 EcoTru                         Hospital-grade cleanser that uses 
	nanoemulsions to kill bacteria without 
	using as much chemicals as non-nano.   
 Battleships                    U.S. Navy uses nanoscale coatings to 
	prevent barnacles and mollusks from 
	gunking up hulls and propulsion shafts.   
 Sources: Johnstown Chamber of Commerce; U.S. Census
Bureau.   
  

Governments, companies and venture capitalists worldwide invested $6 billion on nanotech last year. Yet to hear Mooney tell it, all this money is pouring into a technology filled with "incalculable risks," including health and environmental problems and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 

There has been scant peer-reviewed scientific research on possible nanoparticle risk, maybe four dozen studies, according to Kristen Kulinowski of Rice University's Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology. But Mooney's claims are backed by just enough science to generate headlines--and fear. Over the last 24 months he has met with interest groups in Thailand and Chile, regulators in Washington and Brussels and scientists in Houston and Cape Town. His goal: to spread the word of risks and persuade regulators to declare a moratorium on new nanotechnology research until there is an established protocol for safety and a public discussion on the impact of the technology. "We're saying this is going to be the biggest technological change you've ever seen," says Mooney, "and you need to start paying attention." 

The biggest battleground could be in Europe, where groups like Mooney's hold far more sway than in the U.S. Consumers there are prone to panic (witness the 1999 Belgian episode of mass hysteria over harmless Coca-Cola), and the Greens are politically powerful. Last year Mooney's group organized an event in Brussels at the European Parliament, where some 250 regulators, legislators and others came to discuss the potential for new regulation. Corporate Watch U.K., an antibusiness group, recently announced plans to map the nanotech industry and provide campaigners with corporate targets. 

Mooney also published a report called The Big Down, which was based largely on news clippings but found its way into a report by Zurich insurer Swiss Re. The white paper caused a stir this spring when it suggested the release of nanomaterials could cause all sorts of health and environmental problems and compared some nanoproducts to asbestos. "There could be lawsuits even if the risk is not real," says Marcel Buerge, head of risk engineering at Swiss Re. "This is tricky." 

Mooney's writings also caught the eye of Prince Charles, who invited Mooney and a small group of scientists and nanoskeptics to a dinner at Clarence House, his personal residence. In early July the prince penned an op-ed for the Independent on Sunday which warned that nanoparticles could behave as carcinogens. 

The concerns of the prince and others also sparked a government-commissioned study from the Royal Society, the United Kingdom's academy of science. Released in late July, it recommends greater regulation of nanomaterials, including treating them as new chemicals under U.K. and European legislation, which would trigger additional safety tests and labeling. 

But while nano is high on Swiss Re's radar, other insurers aren't as alarmed. "We are much better off looking at leading causes of death," says Robert K. Gleeson, M.D., medical director at Northwestern Mutual. "Smoking and obesity each cause 400,000 deaths a year. Nanotech is still a zero." 

Entrepreneurs who work with nano-related products say the activities of ETC and other pressure groups can be costly distractions. Greg Schmergel is chief executive of Nantero in Woburn, Mass., which uses nanotechnology to build memory chips. He planned to enter a joint venture with a large company a few years ago. But the potential partner backed out, he speculates, because of groundless environmental worries fomented by pressure groups. 

Large companies that have been through this wringer before are treading cautiously. BASF meets regularly with groups like Mooney's and has embarked on a public education campaign in Germany. DuPont has turned to Ecos, an environmental consulting firm run by former Greenpeaceniks, to test its message prior to sometimes uncomfortable meetings with Mooney or his ilk. The NanoBusiness Alliance, a U.S. trade group, now corresponds with Mooney and his crowd, as well as with rulemakers on Capitol Hill. 

The good news for business, says Tim E. Harper, head of the European Nanobusiness Association, is that it is much harder to define nanotech or find a Monsanto-like scapegoat. One thing he learned from that debate is that you cannot dismiss groups like ETC. "If you get in a fight with them, you will lose," he says. 

Additional reporting by Carrie Coolidge 

Document FB00000020040823e09600015


More Like This

 Article 404 *******************    



Science & Technology: Solar

Another Dawn for Solar Power; Tech breakthroughs and high energy prices are rekindling the industry 

By Otis Port in New York 
1,791 words 
6 September 2004
BusinessWeek
94
Volume 3898
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

On a sunny june day in 1979, President Jimmy Carter held the first and only press conference on the White House roof. Atop the West Wing, he unveiled a $28,000 solar cell system that captured the sun's energy to provide hot water for the White House. He also launched a sweeping drive aimed at harnessing the sun, the wind, and other renewable resources to generate 20% of America's electricity by 2000. 

It didn't happen, of course. The share of electricity produced by solar cell technology in the U.S. last year was a mere 0.07%. Carter's solar water-heating system was removed in 1986 so a leak in the roof could be fixed. The solar panels were supposed to be reinstalled but they never were. 

Now, several startups aim to revive Carter's dream of harvesting the sun's rays. Even the optimists admit it will take years to build enough solar energy capacity to make a dent in coal and natural-gas consumption. But with better technology, new solar systems could start plugging the power supply gap during periods of peak demand in some regions by 2007. 

There are two basic concepts for tapping the sun's energy: collect its heat or convert its light. The solar-thermal approach uses mirrors to reflect the heat energy from a large area onto a small space, such as a pipe filled with a fluid like molten salt. Once the fluid's temperature has been raised to hundreds of degrees, it can be used to boil water and produce steam for a conventional generator. 

With the other approach, called photovoltaics, a semiconductor -- typically silicon -- absorbs the photons streaming from the sun and reacts by giving off a flow of electrons, or electricity. 

HOT OVERSEAS 

Both techniques have been around for ages, but they have made little headway in the U.S. because of cheap fossil fuels. In Japan and Europe, where such fuels aren't so cheap, unit sales of solar energy systems have been mushrooming 35% annually since the mid-1990s. Now, the combination of rising fuel costs and engineering advances that boost the efficiency of solar power systems are stimulating fresh U.S. investment. 

The solar-thermal strategy is roughly 30% efficient at turning the sun's heat into electricity -- about double the efficiency of photovoltaics. As a result, the thermal technique enjoys a pricing advantage. The giant solar-dish mirrors designed by Stirling Energy Systems Inc. could generate electricity for less than 8 cents per kilowatt hour (kwh) -- maybe even 6 cents, asserts David J. Slawson, CEO and founder of the Phoenix startup. Unlike photovoltaic panels, though, solar dishes aren't practical for homes. To work effectively, they need to be large -- too big to plant on a roof or even in a backyard. Stirling Energy's dishes are 38 feet across and 40 feet tall and generate 25 kilowatts, or enough juice for five or more homes. 

The dishes are based on technology pioneered at the Solar Two ``farm'' in California's Mojave Desert, sponsored by the Energy Dept. Mothballed in 1999, Solar Two used 1,800 solar dishes in concentric arcs to reflect the sun's heat onto a central ``power tower.'' That layout required a massive $150 million investment for 10 megawatts of capacity -- or $15 per watt. To reduce costs with a modular approach, Slawson has scrapped the tower. Instead, he mounts a miniature generator at the focal point of each dish. 

When these power dishes enter volume production, expected around the end of 2006, Slawson predicts costs will tumble 90%, to $25,000 per 25-kilowatt dish. That would put the capital cost of a 10-Mw plant at $10 million, or $1 per watt. But Arizona Public Service Co., which is under a state mandate to generate 1.1% of its electricity through renewable resources by 2007, isn't waiting. It will install 10 dishes next year. And utilities in Nevada and California are haggling for 40. 

On the photovoltaics front, upstart Solaicx Inc. in Los Gatos, Calif., predicts that residential and commercial solar panels made with its silicon material will soon compete with conventional fossil-fuel generators in markets where electricity costs at least 10 cents per kwh. But for that to happen, the capital cost of solar cell systems needs to reach the same magic number of $1 per watt of generating capacity. That up-front investment, along with operating efficiency and equipment depreciation, determines the price at which kilowatt-hours of output can be sold. Today, the installed cost of high-efficiency silicon solar panels starts at $3 per watt. ``Our customers should get to $1 a watt by 2007,'' declares Robert S. Ford, CEO of Solaicx. Around 2010, the Energy Dept. expects improved solar cells to generate electricity at 6 cents per kwh. 

CHEAPER CELLS 

Solaicx won't begin shipping silicon from its new factory until October, but Ford claims that two top producers of solar panels -- he won't say which ones -- have already signed up to buy the silicon platters. So has SunPower Corp. in nearby Sunnyvale, Calif. A solar panel typically has 36 solar cells carved from compact-disk-size silicon wafers. Solaicx will churn out the wafers with equipment similar to that used to make raw silicon for the semiconductor industry -- but tailored from scratch for high-volume production. ``It's just good old-fashioned silicon done right,'' says John T. Sedgwick, co-founder of Solaicx. 

Solaicx uses two tricks to produce better solar cells: make the silicon wafers 40% thinner and thus cheaper, and increase something called carrier lifetime. When photons from the sun hit the surface of a solar cell, they dislodge electrons from silicon atoms. The longer these electrons remain free -- the carrier lifetime, measured in milliseconds -- the greater the chance that they will stream off the solar cell ``and into your toaster or lightbulb,'' says J. William Yerkes, chief technology officer of Solaicx and a photovoltaics pioneer for three decades. 

With today's silicon, roughly 16 of every 100 bumped-off electrons make it out into the real world, Yerkes says. That means the cells are 16% efficient at turning sunlight into electricity. By boosting carrier lifetime, Solaicx' lower-cost wafers have yielded prototype solar cells that are 21% efficient. 

Silicon-based solar cells represent 92% of today's photovoltaics market, but some producers are betting on different, much cheaper materials for the future. One is a conductive polymer salted with nano-size carbon molecules dubbed buckyballs. Last year, researchers at Germany's Siemens Solar Group (now Shell Solar) applied a very thin coating of the buckyball mixture on a plastic film and produced a solar cell that topped 5% efficiency -- the best yet for an organic solar cell. The cost of these solar cells would be a fraction that of their silicon cousins, so a homeowner could buy five or ten times the surface area and still save money. 

Despite its modest cost, the low output may limit initial applications to fold-up recharging pads for laptop computers and other portable gadgets. But the researchers are confident that efficiency can be hiked to 7%, or perhaps 10%. Then the solar coating applied to a roof could supply all the required electricity to a home. 

Turning rooftops into power plants is also a focus of newcomers on opposite coasts. Nanosys and Nanosolar, both in Palo Alto, Calif., and Konarka Technologies in Lowell, Mass., are developing liquid-plastic compounds that can be applied to most surfaces. But instead of buckyballs, they spice the mixture with nano-size semiconducting wires or pinheads called quantum dots. 

Japanese giant Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. has teamed up with Nanosys to develop solar coatings that could be painted on roofs and walls. Commercial products are still a couple of years off. Konarka echoes that timetable for its solar roof technology, but recharging pads and solar energy coatings for Army tents could be ready next year. 

A Midwest company, Energy Conversion Devices Inc.'s United Solar Ovonic unit in Auburn Hills, Mich., grabbed the early lead in solar roofs. Since 1997, it has been applying silicon coatings on roofing materials. Its solar film can also be supplied as peel-and-stick rolls, and these will be used on the roof of Beijing New Capital Museum in China. 

Thanks to the revolution in materials science wrought by nanotechnology and conducting plastics, organic solar coatings are also under development at such industrial stalwarts as General Electric Co. and IBM. And organic solar cells are the focus of a new 4.6 million euro, 30-month research effort in Europe. Called Molycell, its goal parallels what Solaicx and Stirling Energy promise: solar power systems with a capital cost of $1 per watt. France's atomic energy agency heads the Molycell team. Konarka, Siemens, and a half-dozen universities and energy research centers are participating. 

While the U.S. is still a major player in solar research, it has fallen behind in reaping profits from solar cells. Japan is way ahead of every other country. In 2001, its annual capacity was nearly four times that of America's 167.8 Mwp -- the p means peak, or no cloudy days -- and Germany was a solid No. 2, with 260.6 Mwp. Last year, Japan generated half of all the world's solar power, built 44% of all new solar energy equipment, and installed five time as much new solar power capacity as the U.S. One company, Sharp Corp., accounted for 27% of all new solar panels, according to market researcher PV Energy Systems Inc. in Warrenton, Va. 

Worldwide, unit shipments of solar systems have jumped 35% or more for each of the last eight years. Include installation costs, and market researcher Clean Edge Inc. pegs solar industry sales at $4.7 billion in 2003. For 2013, the Oakland (Calif.) company sees solar topping $30.8 billion. 

However, that projection is based on installed per-watt costs remaining way above $1. If Solaicx, Stirling Energy, and Molycell deliver solar generation for $1 a watt by 2007, the business of harnessing the sun's energy could go supernova. 


Who's Who in Solar Power
          
          Japan's Sharp is king
                MEGAWATTS OF
                CAPACITY SOLD
                IN 2003
 1. Sharp       198
 2. Shell Solar 77
 3. Kyocera     72
 4. BPSolar     70
 5. RWE         42
 6. Mitsubishi  40
 7. Isofoton    35
 8. Sanyo       35
 9. Q-Cells     28
 10. Photowatt  20
Data: PV Energy Systems Inc.
  

photograph | Photograph: HARD CELL A technician looks over solar panels at Boeing 


Document BW00000020040902e0960000l


More Like This

 Article 405 *******************    


First

Sweat shirts CLOTHING 

Julia Boorstin 
197 words 
20 September 2004
Fortune
60
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

There's nothing less presidential than sweaty pits. Or at least that's what Dockers figured when it launched its Perspiration Guard shirt in August, proclaiming itself the campaigns' unofficial shirt sponsor. "We want Bush and Kerry to know they don't have to sweat the election, despite all the coverage showing their pit stains," says Kris Tulin, head of Dockers Advanced Innovation. The Levi Strauss subsidiary sent a dozen shirts, which retail for $50 at J.C. Penney and May Department Stores, to each candidate to avert future, ahem, pitfalls. 

Dockers says it uses nanotechnology to dry moisture six to eight times faster than normal, and also employs Refresh Action antimicrobial technology to minimize odor. Donning the shirt on a humid New York City afternoon in late August, FORTUNE's tester found it to be heavier and scratchier than a typical dress shirt. Still, it got a thumbs-up. "The shirt gets wet, but the sweat doesn't show," he reported. Meaning this button-down ensures you won't break the first rule of politics: Never let 'em see you sweat. --Julia Boorstin 

COLOR PHOTO: STEPHEN JAFFE--AFP/GETTY IMAGES 


Document FORTU00020040913e09k00004


More Like This

 Article 406 *******************    



WSJ Guide to Business Schools: Recruiter's Top Picks (A Special Report) --- Nose to the Grindstone: The secret to Purdue's success: Work hard, work right, work together 

By Ronald Alsop 
1,645 words 
22 September 2004
The Wall Street Journal
R5
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -- "Our coffee is strong. So is our work ethic." 

That message, which hangs on the wall of the career-services center at Purdue University's Krannert School of Management, sums up nicely one of the key reasons that recruiters rated it No. 1 in The Wall Street Journal/Harris Interactive Regional ranking. 

Recruiters almost unanimously praise Krannert M.B.A.s for their dogged work habits and loyalty to their employers. "Purdue folks have struck me as typically Midwestern," says Chris Allen, managing director, procurement analytics, at 2ndEdison Inc., a supply-chain and product-innovation consulting firm in Redwood City, Calif. "They have a good work ethic, they're team players, they're fiscally conservative, and they're professional if slightly formal, especially compared with California students. In these post-Enron times, that's a good combination in my business." 

Purdue's business school also received high scores in the recruiter survey for students' ethics and integrity, analytical and problem-solving skills, and their willingness to relocate for their jobs. Krannert was rated lower for students' awareness of corporate-citizenship issues, their international knowledge and experience, and the amount of previous work experience. 

While Krannert has been devoting more attention to business ethics lately, it is trailing other major business schools in creating courses and research centers to raise students' sensibilities about corporate social and environment responsibility. 

As for work experience, the median for Krannert students is about 3 1/2 years, and the average is about four years, compared with a median and average of five years at some of the other top-ranked schools. That's partly because "we're more prone to let engineering students with really good performance at the undergraduate level into the M.B.A. program with less work experience," says Krannert Dean Richard Cosier. "We believe in being more flexible to get a terrific student." 

Dean Cosier wasn't surprised that recruiters marked Krannert down for students' international perspective. But he says students have more opportunities to study abroad than they did five years ago. "We also are going to expand into global supply-chain management," he says, "and look more at emerging international issues such as the offshoring of jobs." 

Established in 1958 as the School of Industrial Management, Purdue's business school grew out of the university's economics department and its engineering school. Since then, it has never strayed far from its roots, maintaining its focus on quantitative skills, operations management, manufacturing and technology. That consistency shows up in the Journal survey: Krannert placed third when recruiters were asked to list the most outstanding schools in the field of operations management and eighth among recruiters' picks for top schools in information technology. 

"We've stuck to our knitting," says Purdue President Martin Jischke. "Our historic niche has been the management of technology companies, which connected Krannert to our other schools and departments dealing with science, engineering, technology and pharmacy." 

That's true, of course, but Krannert also is expanding its quantitative and operations focus to new areas of technology and is embracing entrepreneurship more strongly. Although still closely connected to manufacturing companies, Purdue is moving away from its old industrial image. It was more than a decade ago that Purdue began a campus beautification program that included the razing of the smokestack that dominated the school's skyline and seemed representative of the school's old image. 

Now taking shape on the outskirts of the red-brick campus is Discovery Park. A sleek entrepreneurship center recently opened, and soon centers dedicated to nanotechnology, bioscience and e-enterprise will start sprouting. Discovery Park will integrate the business school more than ever with other parts of the university, as well as encourage professors and students to think more about applications, not just theory. "Discovery Park is intended to dissolve all of the silos at Purdue," says Donald Blewett, associate director of the new entrepreneurship center. 

It also fits Purdue's plan to serve its home state as it grapples with the decline in industrial manufacturing and the rise of biotechnology, electronic commerce and other new industries. One of the land-grant universities of the 19th century, Purdue was founded in 1869 on the bluffs above the Wabash River and charged with providing education in "agriculture and mechanic arts." Now, says Dr. Jischke, "the people of Indiana are increasingly looking to Purdue to transfer our research and technology into the state economy." 

A prime example of Purdue's high-tech entrepreneurship mission is recent M.B.A. graduate Kevin Boscacci. After working 15 years as a biochemical engineer in the pharmaceutical industry, he returned to Krannert for his M.B.A. because, as he explains it, "I wanted to learn to think as a businessman just as I had learned to think as an engineer. I wanted to be more involved in business decision making early on." 

Mr. Boscacci joined Purdue's Innovation Realization Lab, where M.B.A. students and scientists come together to learn about each other's worlds and to bring new discoveries to the marketplace. Now, he is working in business development for Prosolia Inc. in Indianapolis to help commercialize technology developed by Purdue researchers to expand the use of mass spectrometry in the life sciences. 

But Krannert's robust reputation for engineering whizzes and technology management has its downside. For one thing, school officials believe the quantitative image deters many women from applying to Krannert. About half of the students have backgrounds in engineering and science, fields traditionally less popular with women. That's a definite disadvantage to recruiters who are seeking more women M.B.A.s as they try to diversify their management ranks. 

"We do want to increase our diversity," says Chuck Johnson, director of the professional master's programs. "Although we have strong international diversity, there's no question we could benefit from more women, people from more varied ethnic and racial backgrounds, and even a few more poets. But it's very competitive among M.B.A. programs trying to attract the best and brightest from a small pool of female and minority candidates." 

The strong connection with operations management and technology overshadows some of Krannert's other strengths, causing frustration among some professors who feel that not all academic areas receive their due. "I would like to see the school promote the finance program more," says David Denis, a professor of corporate finance. "We risk playing up science and technology too much and ignoring other pockets of the school." While recruiters hire Krannert graduates for finance jobs, most positions are inside large corporations. Wall Street doesn't shop much at Krannert. 

Krannert students believe the school needs to develop stronger ties with successful alumni to broaden their hiring prospects. Some say they have sent e-mails to alumni that were never answered. "Krannert should improve alumni relations to increase alumni-student contact for mentoring, helping find jobs and providing more real-world insights," says Eric Bauer, an M.B.A. student majoring in marketing and finance. 

But even without the alumni help some students seek, Krannert is recovering from the M.B.A. job drought of the past few years. By August, 86% of the class of 2004 had received job offers, up from about 80% last year. Although surrounded by Hoosier farmland, Purdue is situated between two large metropolitan areas -- Chicago and Indianapolis -- and draws many recruiters from large Midwest-based companies, such as Ford Motor Co., Procter & Gamble Co. and Guidant Corp. 

Surprisingly, Krannert is attracting more marketing jobs of late than positions in either operations or finance. Among the new recruiters looking to fill marketing jobs: DuPont Co., International Paper Co. and Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. "I believe recruiters are recognizing that the growth of our marketing curriculum and higher-quality marketing faculty have helped draw some very good students to Krannert," says Alan Ferrell, director of graduate career services. 

Like many schools this year, Krannert saw applications to its full-time program sag, particularly among international prospects. The number of applicants fell 27%, and the size of this year's incoming class will be down nearly 20% to about 130. "We wanted to maintain quality even if that means a smaller class," says Jamie Hobba, admissions director for the master's programs. "This year, the average Graduate Management Admission Test score for the new class will be about 10 points higher." 

But in other respects, Krannert is expanding at a time when many schools are struggling financially to maintain the status quo. Krannert is in the midst of a faculty expansion that will result in a net increase of 20 professors by 2007. It is also busy on the construction front. In addition to Discovery Park, Krannert opened a $35 million classroom building last year that was designed to incorporate the latest technologies as well as encourage more interaction among students and faculty in the public areas within its light-drenched atrium. "It was like moving from a dungeon to a palace," says Jennifer Johnson, an M.B.A. student whose goal is a job in cosmetics marketing. 

Private donations, of course, are funding much of the growth. The new classroom building, for example, is named for alumnus Jerry Rawls, who donated $10 million. Dean Cosier estimates that Krannert currently derives 20% of its $28 million budget from the state, 40% from tuition and the remainder from private sources. 

Unlike some deans, Dr. Cosier seems to relish tapping companies and alumni for financial support. "We're trending more to private funding," he says, "which suits me just fine because I enjoy fund raising and I like playing golf." 

Document J000000020040922e09m0001y


More Like This

 Article 407 *******************    



Columnists

Three Ways to Beat a Flat Market; Rich Karlgaard offers three ways to beat a flat market. 

Rich Karlgaard 
1,018 words 
4 October 2004
Forbes
45
Volume 174 Issue 6
English
(c) 2004 Forbes Inc. 

Suppose Warren Buffett is right about the stock market's being under house arrest for another ten years. I don't want this to happen, nor do you. But history speaks. The S&P didn't recapture its 1929 highs until 1954. The Dow first brushed 1000 in 1966 but failed to break out for good until 1982. It got as low as 577 during the dog days of the Nixon denouement. 

So if Buffett is correct, forget indexing. Forget buy and hold. If you want to achieve boffo returns, you'll have to adopt one of three methods: pick tomorrow's superstars, time the market or time prices. 

On a recent Forbes investor cruise, attendees got the lowdown on these three methods. I'll explain more in a minute, but my take is that all three can work. Two will be very hard work; the other requires less footwork but scads more patience and independence of mind. 

Pick Tomorrow's Superstars. Wish you'd bought Microsoft when it went public in 1986? Or Intel after Andy Grove had junked memories for microprocessors? These picks look like no-brainers--now. Moore's Law foretold the rise of personal computers. Grove and Bill Gates were guys (we'd learn) who'd rather suffer leprosy than failure. They were Roman conquerors. Other early PC heroes, such as Steve Jobs and Mitch Kapor, now look like yesterday's dreamy Athenians. You probably lost money betting on them if you got in too late, which many of us did. How were we to know? Who knew Michael Dell would keep his focus, while Gateway's Ted Waitt would lose his in a midlife crisis? 

Nanotechnology has a mortal lock on being tomorrow's gold mine. It will produce trillions of dollars in new wealth over the next century. It's sure to reshape every industry it touches--computing, materials, health care and so on. But which nanofranchises will emerge as comparable to Windows and Pentium? Which CEOs will walk in the path of Gates, Grove or Dell? Sorting this out won't be easy. It'll require four talents: a deep scientific understanding of nano, the ability to see market forces at work, financial acumen and an instinct for discerning the Dells from the Waitts. Your best bet is to read the excellent Forbes/Wolfe Nanotech Report ( www.newsletters.forbes.com). 

Time the Market. Ralph Acampora heads technical analysis for Prudential Equities. He's squarely in Buffett's camp: U.S. stocks, he says, are stuck in a dinky range of long duration. Acampora calls it a secular bear market and says these dismal conditions could last another decade. But just as shorter, cyclical bear markets occurred during the 1982-to-2000 boom--think 1987 and 1994--so will cyclical bull markets happen in our day. Acampora says today's market will rise 20% over the next 12 months. Then sink back. And so on. 

Market timing seems to me to be a sucker's game, even if Brother Ralph makes a compelling case (and he does). The problem is that the market discounts all known information. Thus, swings that in Acampora's charts appear to fit a preordained pattern are, in fact, triggered by some event the market didn't see: a currency collapse, a terrorist attack, a palace coup. 

If you see something that all the king's horses and men haven't spotted yet, then go ahead: Time the market. Otherwise, don't. 

Time Prices. Now here's one I can buy into. Especially after I heard John Buckingham, who edits the Prudent Speculator newsletter, explain it. Markets may be efficient; not so, stock prices. Especially not small-cap stock prices. Big mutual funds don't touch them. Analysts have hardly a word to say. So the little stocks sit there, sometimes loved, often not. When they are not, Buckingham buys. 

Buckingham is, by nature, a quant nerd. Fresh out of the University of Southern California, he was hired by the legendary Al Frank to automate Frank's analytic tools. Buckingham and Frank bonded, and by 1990 Buckingham had taken over editing the Prudent Speculator. Mark Hulbert ranks the newsletter as the best in the last 10 to 20 years. Al Frank died in 2002. If there is any risk here, it's that Al Frank is no longer around to counsel his protégé. 

The formula remains Al Frank simple. Buckingham buys when the stocks trade at half or less than what he thinks they're worth. He sells at full value. In between, he holds them--often for years. Buckingham is not wedded solely to low P/Es. He also looks at price-to-book, price-to-cash flow, price-to-cash and debt. He couldn't care less about the quality of management inside his companies (how do you quantify that?) or about who will win U.S. presidential elections or whether hemlines are headed up or down. Buckingham plays the numbers. He is to stocks what Bill James is to baseball. 

Buckingham is always long and always 100% invested in the market. His only hedge is breadth. His portfolio consists of 150 companies, from home builders to chipmakers. He admits that the bottom decile of his portfolio will lose 75%, which is why he cautions against single stock picks. Two years ago he put Apple Computer in his portfolio when cash represented 85% of Apple's share price. Apple has more than doubled. Today he likes ... well, I have to agree with Buckingham that giving a pick or two works against his strategy for diversity. You'll have to go to www.newsletters.forbes.com to find out. 

Next year Forbes will host two investment cruises: one in February, along Mexico's west coast; another in June, in the Baltic. Learn more at www.investmentcruise.com. 

Visit Rich Karlgaard's home page at www.forbes.com/karlgaard or email him at publisher@forbes.com. 

Document FB00000020040920e0a400006


More Like This

 Article 408 *******************    


Features/Cover Stories/Inside the New China

CAN CHINA OVERTAKE THE U.S. IN SCIENCE? A handful of labs are making the great leap forward. But Nobel Prizes and major innovations like gene-splicing and the Internet are likely to take a decade or more. 

DAVID STIPPREPORTER ASSOCIATE Zhang Dan 
4,136 words 
4 October 2004
Fortune
187
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

BOUNDING UP THE STAIRS AT THE BEIJING Genomics Institute, Darren Cai, vice president of business development, pulls a flight ahead of me before I realize that the usual pace here is close to a sprint. I might have known--there are signs everywhere with messages like GET THINGS DONE! and SPEED! SPEED! SPEED! But I'm not the first to be surprised by BGI's hustle. Three years after its 1999 launch, the institute stunned gene teams around the world by decoding the rice genome in mere months, catapulting it overnight into the top echelon in genomics. 

BGI's rise augurs changes in Chinese science and technology as radical as those reshaping its economy. Research at places like this genome center promises to make China as formidable an innovator as it is now an imitator. That will take years--but when it happens, look out: A billion-plus people bouncing off one another will generate a lot of creative sparks. And history shows that inventiveness is firmly planted in China's DNA: Gunpowder, rocketry, wheelbarrows, cast iron, compasses, paddle-wheel boats, block printing, stirrups, papermaking, mechanical clocks--all came first in China, often centuries before they appeared in the West. 

Already China is emerging as a force to be reckoned with in delivering lucrative but incremental advances, like designing chips for consumer electronics. But its bid to become an economic superpower will ultimately depend more on its fecundity in basic research than on its ability to engineer me-too or me-slightly- better products. World-changing innovations are hard to arrive at-- the American scientific and engineering culture that brought forth such miracles as color TV, Kevlar, the laser, gene-splicing, and the Internet took decades to build. For all its progress, China is still at least a decade--possibly much more--from serious scientific competition with the U.S., Europe, and Japan. 

That may come as a surprise if you've been following news on the topic. Last year Wired magazine dubbed China the "first cloning superpower." Other stories have played up its budding space program, its stem-cell advances, and its embrace of bioengineered crops. But in science, as with any other pursuit, you get what you pay for. Annual U.S. spending on biomedical research, to take one example, totals about $60 billion--half from the government, the rest from industry and charities. That's more than 200 times China's aggregate spending on such research, according to a recent report in the journal Nature. Even as a percentage of GDP, China's research budget is dwarfed by those of more developed countries. In 2001 the Chinese government's R&D spending totaled $12.5 billion, or 1.1% of GDP; the comparable U.S. figures were $281 billion and 2.8%. 

In short, the idea that China will soon leapfrog the U.S. in any major area of science is at war with the facts (with the notable exception of research on new energy sources; see box). Even in pursuits in which China has made headlines, it is unlikely to catch up anytime soon. Turning stem-cell experiments into therapies such as replacement organs will require expertise in genetics and clinical medicine that's relatively undeveloped in China, Yang Xiangzhong wrote in the Nature report. At best, China might emerge as "one of the leading nations" in stem-cell research in five to ten years, concluded Yang, a native of China who directs the Center for Regenerative Biology at the University of Connecticut. Seriously competing with the West in other areas is likely to take even longer, says Jing Cheng, CEO of Capital Biochip, a Beijing biotech company. "To construct a research building takes a year," Cheng notes. "To fill it with something really meaningful easily takes ten to 20 years." 

Cheng is in a position to know--he had a stellar career in U.S. biotechnology before returning to his native China to help spearhead its push into the field. And his company has ramped up fast since its formation three years ago, filing dozens of patent applications and launching more than 20 products, including cutting-edge systems to probe genes' functions. In 2002, Capital's site in northwest Beijing was a field of vegetables; now it's the Zhongguancun Life Science Park, a cluster of radiant buildings set around an elegant green space. Still, it's a special case: China's policymakers are putting a lot of eggs in selected baskets like Capital Biochip and the Beijing Genomics Institute to create model centers of excellence. And new buildings are a lot easier to come by than Nobel Prizes. While Chinese expatriates have won Nobels, China has yet to claim one based on homegrown work. 

For that to change, and no doubt it will, the concentrated smarts and can-do spirit of bellwethers like Capital Biochip and BGI must spread across the culture to hundreds of universities and technical schools, and to thousands of industrial, academic, and government labs. Recent visits to a variety of leading Chinese science centers- -including ones working on animal cloning, protein structure analysis, and nanotechnology--show how that process is going. It turns out that the speed of China's preliminary steps toward scientific superstardom will depend on how fast its researchers do three things: turn connections into smart money, lure back talented emigrants, and put Confucius on the shelf. 

FOR ALL its GDP growth, China is still a developing country with limited resources for luxuries like basic research whose payoffs may be decades away. Half of the souped-up financial engine that propels American R&D, the part that runs on venture capital and stock offerings, is only now being built in China, so funds for research still come mostly from government-controlled entities. When BGI decided to decode the silkworm genome in 2003, for example, it went to a government-controlled bank for a quick loan. "In China the banks are waiting outside your door, wanting to push their money in front of you," says Cai, the fast-paced BGI vice president. "Our credit has been very good." 

How can a nonprofit institute doing basic research get commercial credit? How will it ever keep up with its loans? No problem--the government will pay, says Cai, who has a Ph.D. in biomedical engineering from the University of California at Berkeley and an MBA from Yale. (His DNA is from China.) "This was a project of high economic significance and national pride," he explains. "We knew that after we finished it, government entities would provide funding. We do things in reverse here--first we do things, then we find a way to pay the bill." 

That's not bravado in his tone, it's connections--what the Chinese call guanxi. Cai's institute has them to spare: Its feats have won praise from China's leaders, and its globetrotting director, Yang Huanming, worked in top labs in Denmark, France, and the U.S. before setting up BGI with colleagues at the University of Washington at Seattle. 

BGI delivered exactly what its government benefactors hoped it would: It handily beat a Japanese team in an international race to spell out the 530 million chemical letters of the silkworm's genome. The advance promises to help develop ways of tweaking the creature's genes to bolster disease resistance, among other things. Besides securing grants and building more connections, such high- profile coups are helping BGI become a launching pad for biotech startups. Indeed, says Cai, the institute aims to speedily build diagnostics and drug-discovery firms. As a start, it is collaborating with one of the nation's top botanical institutes to analyze traditional Chinese herbal remedies with high-tech tools-- the idea is to isolate compounds that could serve as starting points for new drugs to fight viruses and cancer. 

But BGI's funding strategy has limited potential for most of the nation's scientific startups. For one thing, China's freewheeling banks aren't likely to stay that way. And BGI's do-now-fund-later strategy is based on its ability to make high-profile advances on a tight budget, an edge that may not last. 

Housed in two buildings near Beijing's airport, the institute relies on cheap labor to keep costs down. Decoding genomes happens to involve a lot of tedious steps--such as preparing cell extracts to feed into DNA analyzers--that can be performed by low-paid technicians with little schooling. BGI's brain trust is exceptionally inexpensive too: It consists largely of young biotechies habituated to the student lifestyle. During genome- decoding races, they routinely sleep on mats by their desks and eat all their meals at BGI's spartan cafeteria, where a meaty lunch ladled onto a steel plate costs six yuan, about 75 cents. "We're like a constantly fighting army," says Cai. 

Those days may be coming to an end. "We've had a tendency to keep too many people on staff," Cai concedes. "We're still in a struggle to find the right balance" between employing as many technicians as possible (a high priority in a developing country with 1.3 billion people) and automating their jobs. "Genome research is changing, and the labor component is going down. We have to change too. Otherwise we will become irrelevant." 

BGI can count on government agencies to help meet rising expenses for lab automation. But most entrepreneurs needing serious capital face limited options compared with their counterparts in the West. For some, the best bet is a freshly minted tycoon. "People who have accumulated fortunes in things like construction are trying to diversify into high tech," says Tsinghua University microbiology professor George Chen. "But they usually expect returns in one or two years"--a get-rich-quick mentality at odds with the need for long-term investing in R&D enterprises. 

Not surprisingly, high-tech startups in China sometimes rush out commoditized products to generate early sales--a prerequisite for raising capital from investors fixated on speedy progress. Take Lianyi Biotech, a startup co-founded by Chen in 2001 and funded by a construction company in Shantou, a seaport in South China. Lianyi's first move was to set up a 100-worker plant to make bulk chemicals for cosmetics and food supplements. Attached to the factory is Lianyi's real raison d'tre: a research division developing biocompatible polymers for medical implants, based on Chen's work at Tsinghua. A U.S. venture capitalist might see the strategy as a strange way to deploy a startup's capital--pursuing manufacturing instead of R&D--for it means fewer resources devoted early on to coming up with innovative blockbusters. 

Still, the miracle of guanxi is beginning to bring seasoned high- tech investors--ones with more patience and scientific expertise than construction tycoons--to China's labs. Such smart money is behind Tsinghua University's Foxconn Nanotechnology Research Center, a handsome new institute funded by Foxconn Group, a computer parts maker in Taiwan. 

The center's guiding light is Tsinghua professor Fan Shoushan, an expert on carbon nanotubes, whose career has included stints at MIT, Harvard, and Stanford. Superstrong molecules resembling rolls of chicken wire, nanotubes promise everything from better light bulbs to cables strung between the earth's surface and orbiting platforms. Fan's team is known for, among other things, discovering a way to make long nanotube threads. A few years ago he was lionized in his hometown newspaper in Shanxi province. Foxconn's CEO, whose father comes from the same town, read the article with interest. Soon after, Foxconn arranged to pump $3.6 million over five years into Fan's lab in return for shared rights to discoveries that may lead to products such as flat-screen displays. In 2002 the company upgraded its investment by pledging an additional $35 million to install Fan and his team in a new, world- class facility, which opened late last year. 

Roomy and luminous, the Tsinghua-Foxconn institute is blooming with the cool tools of the nano trade. But like other gleaming science centers in China, it has the air of a banquet table waiting for the arrival of distinguished guests. The wait may not be long. 

Nearly 600,000 of China's best and brightest have gone abroad to study since the late 1970s, according to China's Ministry of Personnel, and fewer than 200,000 have come back. The brain drain has long caused concern in Beijing. But many of the emigrants are now returning, drawn by opportunity, not homesickness--where else can up-and-comers plug into an economy growing 9% a year? 

After years in the West, many returnees bring back not only academic expertise but also a wealth of business experience. Some are even coming back as U.S. citizens. One such Americanized Chinese is David Sun, Capital Biochip's head of business development and marketing. He spent 14 years rising through the ranks at U.S. companies, including Amgen and Motorola, before Capital recruited him last year. 

Of course, returnees usually earn far less than they can in America. But China's boom is lessening the disparity. Says Chen, the Tsinghua University microbiologist: "A few years ago salaries here were about 100 times lower than in the U.S. Now the gap is more like five times." And it's smaller than it looks, considering China's relatively low living costs. Even more important, adds Chen, who did postgraduate work at Austrian, British, and Canadian universities, young Chinese scientists with foreign experience can often land better jobs in China than they can in the West, such as professorships at top universities. 

Cai, a management consultant at Booz Allen Hamilton in New York City before joining BGI, says he took a drastic pay cut upon returning to China last year. It was worth it, he adds, because "we think we can accomplish tremendous things here. We're not just working for some big company in the U.S. or Europe." 

Cai's enthusiasm, shared by other returnees, shows that China's top labs are issuing the siren call of buzz. If you plotted its decibel level over time, the curve would closely track the labs' rising output of high-profile papers. Five years ago the Institute of Biophysics at the Chinese Academy of Sciences rarely published its work in major international journals. Last year the Beijing institute racked up a dazzling three dozen reports in such venues. Recently one of its studies, which brought to light pinwheel-like plant molecules that harvest the sun's energy, made the cover of Nature--science's equivalent of a pennant-winning home run. Bathed in glory, the institute has no trouble reeling in expatriates from places like Harvard, says director Rao Zihe, who distinguished himself as a researcher at Britain's Oxford University before taking the institute's helm in 1998. "We are fussy," he adds. "We want people stronger than me." 

ONE OF THE MYSTERIES of China has been its resistance to the kind of upheavals sparked in the West by advances in science and technology. Inventions that transformed Europe during and after the Renaissance, such as chain-drive machinery and movable-type printing, had about as much impact on China as the advent of the fork. No single factor can account for this strange imperturbability. But a key contributor was the 2,000-year domination of Chinese society by its "bureaucratic scholar- gentry," wrote British historian Joseph Needham in a 1964 essay on Chinese science. Dynasties rose and fell; the bureaucracy endured. Acting as both thought leaders and administrators, this resilient ruling class was based on a merit system that emphasized mastery of the teachings of Confucius. It was a brilliant, durable system, but its heavy stress on respect for the past stifled the central impulse of modern science--to continually smack received wisdom upside the head. 

Confucian conformity is alive and well in China, if the events surrounding last year's SARS epidemic are any indication. Severe acute respiratory syndrome first appeared in southern China in late 2002. A few months later it was spreading globally, triggering an international effort to identify its causal agent. In February 2003 a senior scientist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention in Beijing declared that he had found the likely culprit in SARS victims' lung tissues: chlamydia bacteria. Wrong--about six weeks later scientists working with the World Health Organization pinned down as the agent a novel coronavirus. Yet Chinese scientists continued to embrace the chlamydia hypothesis even after the evidence against it became overwhelming. "It would not have been respectful" to challenge it, a Chinese microbiologist later told Science magazine. 

The SARS bungle, compounded by a cover-up about the epidemic's spread in Beijing, led to some reforms and the sacking of top officials. But Confucian deference to authority in China is still a major obstacle to its drive for scientific excellence, says Poo Mu- ming, director of the Institute of Neuroscience of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Shanghai. (Poo also directs the neurobiology division at the University of California at Berkeley.) Undue courtesy discourages lively scientific exchanges too, especially in public; it's considered bad form to challenge others' work, threatening them with loss of face. However, Poo recently wrote in Nature, returnees, with their alien bluntness and questioning ways, have become a major driver of Chinese science. 

IT'S A LEAP, but not a silly one, to wonder whether the reversal of China's brain drain marks the beginning of the Chinese century in science. Much of the hand-wringing about international competitiveness is shifting from Beijing to Washington. In 2001, Chinese universities graduated about 220,000 students with bachelor's degrees in engineering, more than three times the number of U.S. engineering bachelor's that year. China President Hu Jintao, Premier Wen Jiabao, and their immediate predecessors were trained as engineers--they really get it when it comes to technical issues. 

But alarm about Chinese scientific progress doesn't make sense, and not just because of the long haul China faces to pull even with the West. China's leading scientists, after finally breaking with conformist traditions, have no intention of conforming to the West's research agenda. Instead, they're focusing on China's strengths and needs, forging a scientific enterprise that for the foreseeable future is more likely to complement than compete with work in the U.S. and Europe. BGI, for instance, is parsing the DNA of plants and animals of economic importance to the developing world, such as rice, soybeans, and pigs. Meanwhile U.S. genome centers are studying the DNA of creatures of interest in basic research, such as fruit flies and roundworms. This yin-yang principle is at work even in cloning research, as a visit to the lab of Li Ning demonstrates. 

A professor at China Agricultural University in Beijing, Li is expert at cloning goats and cows--he uses the same methods that led to Dolly, the cloned sheep. The technique yields nearly exact genetic duplicates of animals, making it a breeder's dream. U.S. stockmen, for instance, envision cloning herds of champion cattle. Li has a different dream, inspired by China's relatively high infant mortality rate, about four times higher than in the U.S.: He wants to clone bioengineered cows that give "humanized" milk. 

Some 20 proteins have been identified in human milk that are missing or scarce in cow's milk. A number of them are potent bacteria killers, protecting infants from infections while their immune systems develop. Others meet nutritional needs. Li's team has managed to implant human genes for several of the proteins in mice, whose milk now includes them. Given this proof of principle, he expects to produce humanized-milk cows within a few years. Cloning would help scale up production. Besides keeping babies healthy, Li says, "the milk will be very good for old people" with fading immune systems. 

Doctor Li's Very Special Milk won't be on the market anytime soon. But someday it could bolster the health of millions of babies and seniors not only in the developing world but also in the West. That wouldn't lessen the U.S. trade deficit with China. But it's nothing to wring hands about. 

THE ULTIMATE POWER TRIP 

AS THE WORLD has shifted its factories to China, much of its energy demand has effectively moved there too. At the same time, as more Chinese aspire to the good life replete with cars and air conditioners, the risk of an energy shortfall is rising. To prevent that, the nation is pursuing technologies that could leapfrog it past the U.S. in developing alternative energy sources. 

One is coal liquefaction, which dates from the early 1900s but has languished because of high costs. Last year Shenhua Coal of Beijing licensed rights to an updated version of the technology from an alternative-fuels firm in Utah. Shenhua plans to build a $2 billion plant in Inner Mongolia to churn out diesel and other fuels. The project should cost about 40% less than it would in the U.S., says vice president Zhang Yuzhou, and Shenhua expects to make money on it as long as oil prices (recently almost $45 a barrel) stay above $23. Shenhua also plans to build two plants that use another approach to liquefaction. By 2010 the company's annual coal- liquefaction capacity should approach that of a large oil refinery- -about as much as China now consumes every 12 days. 

China is also pushing the nuclear envelope, planning to build no fewer than 30 reactors by 2020. (It has only nine commercial reactors now; the U.S. has 104.) Most of the new nukes will probably be based on conventional designs. But China is also pioneering "pebble bed" reactors for possible deployment after 2010. Hailed as the politically correct nuke of the future, such reactors are fueled by graphite-and-uranium "pebbles" resembling black billiard balls. In principle, the balls can't get hot enough to cause meltdowns, even if a reactor's cooling system fails. 

Pebble-bed reactors offer major economic pluses too. They are gas- cooled (by helium), which lets them run hotter, hence more efficiently, than ordinary water-cooled reactors. Pebble-bed designs also can generate large amounts of hydrogen, which can be used in place of fossil fuels. Still another plus is modularity: The reactors can be manufactured as small units that snap together like Legos, enabling unprecedented economies of scale. 

Tsinghua University's Institute of Nuclear and New Energy Technology completed a $30 million pebble-bed test reactor near Beijing in 2001. Last year it joined with China's national nuclear- power construction company and China Huaneng Group, a utility, to form Chinergy, a startup slated to build a 200-megawatt pebble-bed plant--potentially a world first. "We've gotten a very warm reception from provincial governments," says CEO Frank Wu. "They've offered to give us land" in hopes of becoming the home of the $250 million plant. Adds vice general manager Xu Yuanhui: "In the U.S. people think safety is more important than adequate power. In developing countries the view is different. Everybody needs electricity." 

FEEDBACK dstipp@fortunemail.com 

NEW BUILDINGS are a lot easier to come by than Nobel Prizes. Expatriates have won Nobels, but China has yet to claim one for homegrown work."WE CAN ACCOMPLISH tremendous things here," says a returnee who took a big pay cut. "We're not just working for some big company in the U.S. 

See also cover story on page 84 of same issue. 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEC SOTH--MAGNUM DNA DECODERS at Beijing Genomics Institute have carved out an international reputation. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEC SOTH--MAGNUM NANOTECH ELECTRONICS innovations are the goal at this Tsinghua University lab in Beijing, where researchers have made nanotube threads. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEC SOTH--MAGNUM CAPITAL BIOCHIP'S Jing Cheng (front), Chaoyang Xia, and David Sun have built one of the nation's first world-class biotech firms. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEC SOTH--MAGNUM EXPERT CLONER Li Ning of China Agricultural University is developing cows to give "humanized" milk. B/W PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEC SOTH--MAGNUM MIGHTY PEBBLES of graphite and uranium will fuel China's test reactor. 


Document FORTU00020040921e0a40000m


More Like This

 Article 409 *******************    



Readers Report

MORE LIGHT ON THE FUTURE OF SOLAR POWER 

Staff 
208 words 
4 October 2004
BusinessWeek
22
Volume 3902
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

``Another dawn for solar power'' (Science & Technology, Sept. 6) covered only two major aspects of photovoltaics (PV): the current crystalline silicon efforts and the futuristic nanoparticle-based research. There is a third aspect that in some people's opinion will be more promising than either: thin films based on copper indium diselenide alloys, amorphous silicon alloys (briefly mentioned), and cadmium telluride. 

PV devices based on these three semiconductors exist in multi-megawatt production and are growing rapidly. More important, they have the qualities needed to make PV cost-effective for energy-significant markets -- a combination of excellent light-to-electricity conversion efficiencies, much lower manufacturing costs per unit area than existing wafer silicon options, and the potential for long outdoor durability. That is why research in these technologies has been heavily and consistently supported by the U.S. Energy Dept. through the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. 

One or more of these technologies and the U.S. companies that dominate them may turn out to be leaders in the future of photovoltaic electricity -- and therein elevate the U.S. as leader in PV worldwide. 

Ken Zweibel 

Manager 

Thin Film PV Partnership 

National Renewable Energy Laboratory 

Golden, Colo. 

Document BW00000020040930e0a400002


More Like This

 Article 410 *******************    



America's New Jingoes 

By George Gilder 
1,828 words 
8 October 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A16
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

With markets at last recovering from the turn-of-the-century crash and the attacks of September 11, it is an opportune time to debate America's future in a rapidly changing world economy. America's establishment of liberal economists and media pundits, however, are joining in a cramped new nationalism that jeopardizes the future of American technology and prosperity. Like reactionary jingoes of the past, they are priming John Kerry with the delusional view that the U.S. and its workers are somehow victims of global trade and capital movements. But as the presidential debates turn to domestic policy and economics, voters need to recognize the realities of world economic transformation and the real threats to American dominance. 

In a popular image, "Benedict Arnold CEOs" are seen to be offshoring factories and outsourcing jobs. Once-prestigious economists such as Paul Samuelson and once-responsible analysts such as Paul Krugman and once-sensible financial pundits such as Lou Dobbs are adducing twisted new theories of how free trade is no longer a win-win proposition. The alleged victims of expanding trade and globalization run from low-wage American workers to Third World environments, from aging American software engineers to overall U.S competitiveness. Mr. Kerry is showing a disturbing receptivity to this alarming turn among his economic allies and advisers. 

--- 

With international trade expanding as a share of global GDP, these pundits want to revisit and politicize all trade compacts in order to incorporate favored rules for ecological and labor policy, presumably lowering the permitted exhalations of carbon dioxide by low wage workers abroad. They want to revive the entirely spurious issue of dumping, a system of price traps and controls used only against foreign rivals outperforming U.S. companies, usually using U.S. components. 

Central to their concerns is the hugely beneficial emergence of China from barbarism and India from penury to become crucial sources of skills and components for U.S. companies and by far the fastest growing markets for high technology goods. But in a remarkably callous and destructive revulsion, these new self-defeating nationalists of the left want to deprive Indian engineers of jobs serving American companies and to harass China over spurious charges of currency "manipulation" and picayune technicalities of ever more complex U.S. trade laws. 

In the crucial area of technology, the new nationalists claim to want a futuristic industrial policy. But when closely examined, their support for technology shuns most existing markets, energy sources, and technology companies in favor of subsidies for fashionably flaky or far out technologies, such as nanotech and hydrogen cars. Promises to achieve energy independence, for example, invoke the usual heliotropic mantras and Quixotic tilts at windmills, while opposing any demonstrably effective means of energy production, such as new drilling for oil and gas in Alaska or new generations of nuclear plants. 

All these policies reflect an era when the U.S. was the global capitalist spearhead, dominant in technology deployment, and our major rivals routinely crippled themselves with socialism. Through these decades, the U.S. could afford to indulge in chemophobia, xenophobia, eco-legal self-abuse, rampant litigation, and regulatory excess without gravely harming what remained the world's lowest taxed and freest major economy. 

Today, however, our major rivals are China, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, and other Asian tigers that are more aggressively capitalist and more resourceful in deploying technology than we are. Preparing to join them are Russia and its Baltic and Eastern European neighbors now competing with each other in lowering tax rates to flat levels in the low teens. China has become a new Wild East of enterprise, with the heart of its economy located in "free zones" with lower tax rates and regulations than Silicon Valley. In energy policy, China is far more advanced than the U.S. and has announced plans to build 60 new nuclear power plants over the next five years; Russia is unleashing petroleum venturers across its endless reaches of promising territory. 

In high technology, China today has more Internet connections and its free zones have higher bandwidth than does the U.S. South Korea has 40 times more communications bandwidth per capita than we do. Japan is also far ahead of us in broadband deployment. India is advancing rapidly, particularly in software, fueled by graduates of its rigorous and competitive school system. Asian countries annually graduate 10 times more electrical engineers than does the U.S., and the U.S. still feels free to send back to their homes foreign engineers and scientists graduating from advanced education in the U.S. 

At the same time that our rivals have turned sharply toward capitalism and technology, the U.S. intelligentsia is turning toward a technophobic fear of useful chemicals (DDT, PCBs) and fervent opposition to world-leading deployment of technology in the U.S. by such corporations as Wal-Mart and General Electric. In passionate support for the Kyoto treaty, they arouse false fears of global warming (global temperatures today stand just below the average of the last two millennia), and raise the hopes of foreign and U.S. bureaucrats bent on usurping control of U.S. energy usage from our citizens. 

At the same time that this movement offers reefs of proposals that would ensnare the U.S. economy in new taxes and regulations, its economists accept a set of unduly pessimistic beliefs about current U.S. performance. Not only is the U.S. wartime budgetary deficit strangely seen as evidence of runaway tax cuts for the rich, but a growing trade gap is seen as evidence of a gullible America absorbing goods dumped from abroad while outsourcing jobs to cheap labor overseas. Over and over, the new American jingoes depict the U.S. as somehow a victim in the international economy. 

Warning of a possible turn against the dollar by current holders of the currency, such establishment figures as Robert Rubin and Pete Peterson, and their academic and journalistic vicars, urge tax hikes, devaluations, trade restrictions, higher minimum wages for labor, as if the U.S. were a precarious Third World country to be pushed into crisis by the International Monetary Fund. 

Their case is a tangle of contradictions. We are to run down the dollar, creating inflation and inflation premiums in interest rates, increasing the costs of all technology businesses that import crucial components (nearly all), crashing our markets ourselves, in order to prevent foreign banks from selling our securities, running down the dollar, and crashing our markets. Beat 'em to the punch. Hey, sounds smart, if the balance of payments were a sign of failing U.S. competitiveness rather than of flourishing American growth. Smart policy perhaps if the U.S. were likely long to remain the largest market for American technology companies. 

But this is no longer the 19th century, when trade in goods dominated the balance of payments and a gap was filled with gold shipments across treacherous seas. In the 21st century, capital movements traveling on fiber lines at the speed of light precede and dominate goods movements, which are inhibited by all the obstacles of international trade. By definition, a trade gap means a capital surplus. For the last several years, foreign movements of capital to purchase long-term assets in the U.S. have exceeded the trade gap by between $200 billion and $300 billion per year. Most of the trade gap is capital goods used by American companies to compete internationally. Foreigners want to invest in the U.S. because we have the most creative and entrepreneurial culture and by far the deepest and most liquid financial markets. By Walter Wriston's Law, capital goes where it is welcome and stays where it is well treated. People send us money because we welcome it and treat it well. The only way we can stop them is by slowing U.S. economic growth and destroying our uniquely resourceful financial industries. 

While regularly incurring trade gaps and budgetary deficits, our economy has grown since the early 1980s from a level, depending on dollar valuation, between one-fifth and one-fourth of global GDP to close to one-third of global GDP last year. During this upsurge entirely unexpected by the same economists now advising Sen. Kerry, U.S. per capita GDP surged from 4.7 times per capita global GDP in 1980 to 6.5 times per capita global GDP in 2003. The U.S. created some 36 million net new jobs at ever higher levels of productivity and earnings, while Europe and Japan created scant employment at all outside of government and entered a productivity slump that continues today. Meanwhile, the U.S. won the Cold War, and since 1990 its stock markets soared from less than one-third to roughly one-half of global market cap. The net wealth of U.S. households in real terms trebled to all-time records ($45.9 trillion at last report). Debt has been shrinking as a share of overall national assets, which now stand at a level near $80 trillion. 

Throughout this period of expanding trade, catastrophist economists like Mr. Rubin, Mr. Krugman, Fred Bergsten and Mr. Peterson have been predicting the same disastrous flight from the dollar that they would cause by their policies. The remedy is always tax rate increases and spending cuts -- which always tend to mean reductions in defense, the only kind of spending that Congress permits to be cut. 

--- 

These proposals are silly and self-defeating. They reflect the continuing bankruptcy of demand-side economics. Empirically, the supply-side engine of global growth revived by President Bush with crucial tax rate reductions has outperformed all other countries. To adopt some panicky austerity regime now would crash our competitiveness without achieving any significant benefit. 

(MORE) 

The U.S. today stands at a crossroads. The key economic issue confronting the next president is whether to embrace the policies of decline and sclerosis that afflict old Europe and have left generations of young people unemployed; or whether to enlist with Asia in the supply-side policies of dynamism and growth that have brought more human beings out of poverty than any other regimes in world history. 

It should be an easy choice. The American left once displayed a real concern for poor people, but today they exhibit merely a morbid envy of the rich. Once they supported American engagement in the world. Today, they retreat to a timorous parochialism. Now it is President Bush who shows compassion for the world's poor and confidence rather than timidity before the forces of global capitalism. It is Mr. Bush who is embracing Asian dynamism rather than Eurosclerosis. For America, that is the winning side. 

--- 

Mr. Gilder, a senior fellow at Seattle's Discovery Institute, is editor of the Gilder Technology Report. 

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Public Promises Are Nice-- If You Can Pay for Them" -- WSJ Oct. 29, 2004) 

Document J000000020041008e0a80001g


More Like This

 Article 411 *******************    



Columnists

Sell Houses, Buy Chips; Rich Karlgaard suggests selling your house, buying chip stocks. 

Rich Karlgaard 
949 words 
11 October 2004
Forbes
47
Volume 174 Issue 7
English
(c) 2004 Forbes Inc. 

Remember Sherman McCoy? He was the self-imagined "master of the universe" in Tom Wolfe's 1987 novel, The Bonfire of the Vanities. A bond trader who earned $985,000 in a year, McCoy managed the trick of saving none of it. As the book opens, Wolfe treats us to the spectacle of McCoy spending every dollar of his salary and bonus, plus $20,000 more--"going in the hole on a million per year!"--on his 14-room apartment in Manhattan, his daughter's kindergarten, his wife's social mountaineering, a Mercedes coupe, a mistress, and on the many other baubles, bangles, swords and shields that constitute New York status competition. 

The millionaire-next-door Sherman McCoy was not. 

Had McCoy only stuck around (and avoided legal troubles), the bump in New York home prices would easily have covered his spendthrift ways. His 14-room prewar co-op, with its own elevator to the ground floor, sold for $1.9 million in Wolfe's novel. It would fetch $5.7 million today. 

If you knew your house was going to triple, would you be as careful to save money? Your house would be your bank. 

This has been the thinking of many real-life Sherman McCoys. Lots of Americans today are house rich and savings poor. Bully for them. Betting the works on real estate, whether planned or lucked into, has worked for most people (so far). It has worked terrifically for people who live in Boston; New York; Washington, D.C.; San Francisco or Los Angeles (so far). It has worked for anyone who owns property bordering an ocean or a gulf. Where salt is in the air, homes have appreciated quickly over the last 20 years. 

So far. 

But now home prices in the urban Northeast and coastal California run four to eight times higher than the national average. (See for yourself at www.coldwellbanker.com and other Web sites.) Such a "coastal/urban premium" has always existed, of course. Today's premium is twice that of 20 years ago. Last year the most expensive house in Fort Wayne, Ind. sold for $895,000. That wouldn't buy an average two-bedroom condo in Manhattan or Boston's Back Bay this year. 

In fact, the price gap between coastal/urban and small-town/heartland America is the widest it's been since the Great Depression. This gap has historically widened and narrowed like a tide. It was at its narrowest in the 1970s, when commercial jet travel to small cities was subsidized. Back then the difference between Fort Wayne and Greenwich prices was 4-to-1, not today's 8-to-1. 

To a contrarian investor, any gap that undulates from decade to decade is enticing at its extremes. Home price gaps across the U.S. are extremely wide today. The smart investor might bet on this gap to narrow. Here's what might cause this to happen. 

-- Coastal/urban prices could drop 5% for every one-point rise in adjustable-rate mortgages. The country's most successful real estate investor, Sam Zell, says ARM rates are headed up. An educated guess is that 40% of American homeowners have yoked themselves to ARMs. But in big cities, where homeowners have learned to apply every inch of leverage available, the percentage holding ARMs is even higher. A rate rise would squeeze millions of homeowners. 

-- Baby boomers, those pampered 77 million of us, predictably have saved too little for our retirement. Unless the stock market begins roaring like the 1982-2000 version, most boomers will find that their biggest asset is not their 401(k) but their house. Expect to see a growing trend in "equity bandits"--scared boomers who sell their inflated houses in New York or California to buy cheaper ones in Arizona or North Carolina. (They'd better not wait too long, however.) 

-- Commercial air travel is not likely to reregulate in favor of small cities. But so what? Broadband Internet narrows the information gap between big and small cities. You can do cutting-edge business in small places today. This is how Fargo, N.D. became a leading center of RFID (radio frequency identification) research and how Cornell University in little Ithaca, N.Y. stole nanotech from under the blue noses of Silicon Valley and Route 128. 

-- In a global economy China and India will continue to exert pressure on prices. U.S. companies domiciled on the urban coasts won't easily get away with passing their high costs on to customers. They'll have to outsource or relocate. 

-- Terrorism. Sure, it's possible the evildoers could try for the Mall of America or a Big Ten football stadium. More likely, they'll target dense population centers. 

Silicon Steal 

Another historical price trend, this one for semiconductor stocks, is worth noting. It's no secret that today's market hates chip stocks. It's hated them all year. Thus you'll find the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index (SOXX) near its 52-week low. 

What's bugging chips? Some imminent technological disruption? No, the bad vibe has everything to do with Microsoft. The software giant is running a year late on its new operating system, code-named Longhorn. This has pushed the PC-upgrade cycle into 2006. The delay is what killed Intel's price and sank the sector. Fund managers desperate to show good returns for 2004 bailed on chips. 

Chips are a steal for anyone with heart and patience. 

Visit Rich Karlgaard's home page at www.forbes.com/karlgaard or email him at publisher@forbes.com. 

Document FB00000020040929e0ab00006


More Like This

 Article 412 *******************    



The Innovation Economy -- Voices of Innovation

Cherry Murray; Senior vice-president of physical sciences research and a veteran at Lucent Technologies' Bell Labs 

Staff 
286 words 
11 October 2004
BusinessWeek
106
Volume 3903
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

How has the corporate lab system changed during the past 20 years? 

Large companies have become global and are no longer only focused on one market. Also, research and development around the globe was not possible when communication was only directly from person to person. The pace of R&D has gone up dramatically [with the advent of] the Internet. For example, in the '80s, we had a research prototype: It took about seven years of development before we put out a product. Today R&D occur simultaneously. There's no opportunity anymore to do research first and develop the technology gradually. 

Are companies increasingly doing more research overseas? 

It depends. Every large corporation is a global corporation with global markets and customers. The real reason for going global with R&D is twofold: first, to connect with your customers; second, to make sure you're getting the world's best talent -- and the world's best talent doesn't necessarily come to the U.S. 

What are the most promising areas of long-term innovation? 

One is nanotechnology. We are just on the verge of being able to create materials and devices that don't exist in nature but are modeled on biological principles. I'm running a conference on [another innovation which] will take 20 years to develop. [The conference is] on the things that are at the intersection of biology and physical machines. These will be important for medicine and, of course, society. And there are things [in the works] like very broadband wireless pervasive networks. 

Document BW00000020041007e0ab00007


More Like This

 Article 413 *******************    



The Innovation Economy -- What's Ahead: The Rese

Flying High? Long the innovation leader, the U.S. now has serious competition from abroad. Is America's research lead in danger? 

By John Carey 
2,152 words 
11 October 2004
BusinessWeek
116
Volume 3903
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

America's technological might has made it possible for humankind to probe everything from the rings of Saturn to the structure of atoms. But now the U.S. is facing stiff challenges from abroad. Korean scientists have made breakthroughs in cloning. Britain is a leader in studying stem cells, which offer promise in many disease areas. World-class research labs are springing up in India, Singapore, Taiwan, and, especially, China. And even as the world invests more in science and technology, there's a growing chorus of worries at home about the health of U.S. research. The fears: America is underfunding breakthrough science, failing to educate its own citizens well enough, and alienating talented foreign-born students, scientists, and engineers with a tangle of new immigration policies. ``Our only real advantage is in knowledge -- and we are not doing well,'' warns Norm Augustine, former CEO of Lockheed Martin Corp. 

Adds Nobel laureate and Massachusetts Institute of Technology physicist Jerome I. Friedman: ``We are living off the investments of the past.'' 

How grave are these threats to America's future in science and technology? ``We can be scared, perhaps very scared, or we can say that we are still bigger and better,'' says Diana Hicks, chair of the School of Public Policy at Georgia Institute of Technology. ``You can argue either way, based on the evidence.'' The best assessment, though, is that America is not yet in any large peril. Certainly, there are legitimate concerns. But worries now being voiced will increase the chances that corrective steps will be taken, ranging from boosts in funding to streamlining the visa process. 

Consider R&D spending. Overall, U.S. investment looks very strong. From 1994 to 2000, total R&D expenditures jumped from $169.2 billion to $265 billion, the largest increase for any six-year period in the nation's history. The U.S. National Institutes of Health budget doubled in the five years before 2003, rising to $27.2 billion and helping to make America the world's biotech powerhouse. And overall, the U.S. spends 2.7% of its gross domestic product for R&D, compared with, say, 1.9% for the European Union. 

All of that is good for America and good for the world, as the innovations streaming from U.S. labs help improve computing and communications and fight diseases, among many other benefits. Nevertheless, lurking under the impressive overall figures are some disturbing facts. U.S. R&D spending has leveled off since 2000. Budget analyst Jules J. Duga of the Battelle Memorial Institute calculates that companies' estimated 2004 R&D spending of $181 billion will mark the fourth consecutive year of small decreases (after adjusting for inflation). 

WHAT ELSE IS NEW? 

And while Uncle Sam's contribution has increased to a record $89 billion for 2004, big boosts for biomedical research, along with defense and homeland security R&D, have come at the expense of other crucial disciplines. Government funding for the physical sciences, which in the past spawned everything from semiconductors to carbon buckyballs, has stopped rising (in inflation-adjusted dollars). In today's superfast world, yesterday's ``big thing'' becomes a commodity and moves to lower-cost offshore factories, says Stanford University physicist Burton Richter, a Nobel laureate: ``So now, if we don't fund the physical sciences, where will the Next Big Thing come from? We don't generate new ideas like we used to.'' That's why Richter is spearheading an effort to increase federal support for basic research in the physical sciences. 

So far, no data support the idea of a significant slowdown in U.S. innovation. With more than 10 million people with degrees in science or engineering, America still leads the world in scientific papers and patents. But other nations are catching up fast. Within a few years, China plans to graduate 350,000 new engineers annually. In contrast, U.S. universities produce less than 100,000 per year. And as many other nations invest heavily in science and technology, the number of papers and patents from researchers in Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Singapore is soaring. The world is increasingly populated with innovators. ``We are at a watershed in the global economy,'' says Denis Fred Simon of Rensselaer Polytechnic University. 

Overall, this global innovation explosion ``is a good thing. We want a productive world,'' says C. Paul Robinson, president of Sandia National Laboratories. But it presents new challenges for the U.S. Companies increasingly need to scour the world for ideas. In the future, ``the U.S. can only count on making at most one in five inventions,'' predicts Greg E. Blonder, a former Bell Laboratories scientist who is now a venture capitalist. The good news is that U.S. researchers appear to be rising to this challenge by tapping into overseas talent. The Georgia Institute of Technology, for instance, is working with Bangladesh scientists on monsoon forecasting and is also collaborating with universities and companies across Asia and Europe in fields such as microelectronics and advanced sensors. Says provost Jean-Lou Chameau: ``Nowadays it would be very arrogant to think that we have all of the research expertise concentrated in one area or country.'' 

Collaboration becomes ever more important as the flow of talent to the U.S. slows. Greater opportunities in countries outside the U.S. mean that fewer foreign-born researchers will be studying, working, and staying in the U.S. The number of visas granted to foreign scientists and engineers has been declining since 2001, aggravated by restrictions imposed to fight terrorism. Because of foreign students' visa troubles, ``there has been a precipitous drop in graduate school applications,'' says James S. Langer, vice-president of the National Academy of Sciences. ``It is having a major effect on science and technology in the U.S. 

QUICKER CLEARANCE 

Bush administration officials stress that the visa problem is not easy to solve. ``Imagine the outcry if we let a terrorist in to study biological methods or physics,'' says C. Stewart Verdery Jr., Assistant Secretary for Border and Transportation Security Policy and Planning at the Homeland Security Dept. Still, he says: ``We agree that if we make it unduly difficult for people to come and work in high tech, we will have done serious damage.'' 

That's why the Administration is taking action. And there may be reason for optimism on the visa front. A Sept. 7 letter to the scientific community from the State Dept. claims that ``98% of all Visa Mantis cases [which involve a security check designed to protect against sensitive technology transfers] are being cleared in less than 30 days.'' While skeptical scientists are waiting for firm proof, ``we have seen a really big improvement in the rate at which cases are being cleared,'' says Wendy D. White, director of the Board on International Scientific Organizations at the National Academy of Sciences. 

No such improvement has come in another area of contention -- stem cell research. Scientists charge that the Administration is stifling work that holds the promise of treating a host of diseases. The White House has prohibited federally funded scientists from freely experimenting with all but a small selection of embryonic stem cells because of opposition from anti-abortion advocates. ``In the U.S., you have this absolutely ridiculous position on federal funding. Most of the best researchers [in publicly funded labs] can't touch these cells while private companies can do anything,'' says Austin Smith, director of Edinburgh University's Institute for Stem Cell Research. But that could change. California voters will soon decide whether to sell billions of dollars in bonds to support research in stem cells. 

The fears about inadequate research support and slowing immigration are real. But do they strike at the heart of America's technological might, or are they just niggling worries, overshadowed by an innovation engine that still holds awesome power? The complete answer won't be known for years -- and, of course, will depend on everything from future R&D funding to visa policies. But if past history is any guide, it's unlikely that the U.S. is facing any serious threats to its ability to compete in the world. 

Flash back, for instance, to the dark days of the late 1980s and early 1990s, when many politicians and scientists lamented that the U.S. was in an irreversible decline. The sense of American supremacy was being rocked by every new wave of imported Toyotas, memory chips, machine tools, and Walkmans. Self-appointed rivals of the U.S. rubbed it in. ``Americans today make money by shuffling money around instead of creating and producing goods,'' scoffed Sony Corp. Chairman Akio Morita in the book he co-authored in 1989, The Japan That Can Say No. 

Japanese arrogance was short-lived, of course. America quickly responded to the challenge. Companies shook off their complacency, adopting cutting-edge manufacturing tools and coming up with fresh breakthroughs. Bioengineered cancer treatments, the world's fastest microprocessors, world-leading equipment to fabricate semiconductors, software to rig up wireless networks, major advances in a mysterious realm known as nanotechnology -- these are but the latest emblems of resurgent American technology. ``The story of the '90s is a reminder not to underestimate U.S. R&D,'' says Curtis R. Carlson, president and CEO of SRI International. ``It's much easier to see the problems than the opportunity.'' 

HANDWRINGING 

Worriers concede that the U.S. is hardly in dire straits. ``Is the sky falling? No. It's maybe drooping a bit,'' says Richter. True, more countries are investing in science and technology than in the 1990s. And we can't count on another Asian stumble. But the game has changed. With companies increasingly searching the whole world for new innovations, it matters less than ever where discoveries are actually made. And even with the new competition, ``the U.S. is leading in pretty much all of science,'' observes Cherry Murray, senior vice-president of physical sciences research at Lucent Technologies' Bell Labs. It is painful to lose some ground in physical sciences, but ``we are doing very well with biology and medicine,'' she asserts. 

Indeed, for all the handwringing, ``I've never seen a time with more opportunity,'' says SRI's Carlson. ``Everywhere you look, there is one wave of technology after another.'' And as the pace of innovation increases, America benefits by having the immense amount of capital and the entrepreneurial culture needed to win the race to market. 

Drop in at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center, for example, where solid-state physicist Phaedon Avouris and his team are weaving gossamer threads of carbon, atom by atom, into new kinds of transistors. Or visit with Dr. Thomas T. Perls at Boston University School of Medicine to learn how people might one day live healthy lives of more than a century. Or explore SRI's spin-off company that's making artificial muscle, a ``smart'' solid-state material that might replace less efficient motors in everything from air conditioners to automobiles. Or consider a future world that has switched from climate-altering fossil fuels to a host of clean energy technologies, which might include a radically different and safer species of nuclear reactor. Meanwhile, researchers are genetically tinkering with microbes and plants to produce not just better crops but renewable energy as well. 

And it's a safe bet that somewhere in America's vast research enterprise, excited researchers are on the cusp of the Next Big Thing -- something as revolutionary as the transistor, the Web, or gene splicing. These scientists may not have a clue themselves how their inventions will change the world, just as the creators of the computer, or the laser, or the Internet couldn't imagine the sweeping transformations that their work would eventually bring. But what they do share is a still-undimmed faith in the power of science and technology to probe, illuminate, and, ultimately, improve the human condition. 

illustration | Illustration: Chart: U.S. Research Worries: While overall spending is high, R&D growth has slowed, and the bulk of the increases are in just one area: biomedical research | illustration | Illustration: Chart: Lean Years Down the Line? With the exception of NASA, nondefense research spending in most areas is likely to shrink CHART BY RAY VELLA/BW | photograph | Photograph: LONG VIEW: Saturn, as seen by the Hubble PHOTOGRAPH BY NASA, ESA AND ERICH KARKOSCHKA; CHARTS BY RAY VELLA/BW | photograph | Photograph: MOTOR MOUTH: SRI is working on solid-state artificial muscle PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK RICHARDS | photograph | Photograph: DARK AGES: Hand assembly of transistors for RCA TVs, circa 1953 PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SARNOFF LIBRARY 


Document BW00000020041007e0ab00009


More Like This

 Article 414 *******************    



The Innovation Economy-- Managing For Innovation

Novel Inspiration; Otherworldly fantasies can evoke solutions to real problems. Science fiction has been honorably doing just that for decades 

By Eric S. Rabkin 
Eric S. Rabkin is a professor of English language and literature at the University of Michigan. Hi 
1,789 words 
11 October 2004
BusinessWeek
206
Volume 3903
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

In March 1990, Motorola promoted a combination wristwatch and pager with the catchphrase ``It's Not Science Fiction Anymore.'' The ad boasted that Dick Tracy's most famous, futuristic accoutrement was finally within reach. Then the future arrived. Today's palmOne Treo is a telephone, alarm clock, calculator, scheduler, text messager, and camera. It's also an e-mail client that gives us access to global digital libraries or our own business documents, serves as private device or speakerphone, and beams business cards and applications to nearby colleagues. When we have nothing else to do while stuck in traffic, it can use plug-in modules to reveal our exact position on the planet, suggest alternate travel routes, and offer games to play alone or with friends scattered far across the Net. 

The amazing thing is, we don't find this amazing. We're living in a science fiction world. The headlines of our newspapers trumpet cloning experiments, the teleportation of atoms, computers controlled by brainwaves, robots that walk and play musical instruments, private planes that carry passengers to the edge of space, space probes that rendezvous with asteroids, and implantable devices that restore hearing to the deaf. When miracles like these are the baseline, how can fantasy measure up? More simply put: Why on earth should we read science fiction? Here are some of the reasons: 

TO MINE NOT-YET-PRACTICAL IDEAS: A science-meets-fiction Web site called Technovelgy.com lists over 650 inventions in the works of 65 science-fiction authors. In the writings of Robert A. Heinlein alone, Technovelgy finds the first appearance of personal RFID transmitters, robotic appliances, noise-reduction chambers, and the idea of mass-customizing consumer products such as clothes. Among inventions yet to go commercial are pneumatic people movers known as ``bounce tubes'' and cryogenic sleeping chambers. If we ever colonize the moon, engineers will be taking fresh looks at Heinlein's The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress (1966): Colonists send minerals and other commodities back to Earth in huge pods, bound by iron rings, that are accelerated through a series of magnetic boost gates along rails that rise at one end -- pointing Earthward. 

Arthur C. Clarke was a master of innovation. His The Fountains of Paradise (1979) describes a cable system tethered at the Earth's equator and rising to the point where the system's center of gravity maintains a geostationary orbit. That balance point would provide an upper platform for electric cars running up and down the cable. The cars could carry spacecraft out of the earth's gravitational field, eliminating the need for rocket launches. 

Several U.S. startups are now trying to design such a ``space elevator,'' which was first described in the technical writings of Russian engineer Yuri N. Artsutanov in 1960. But it was Clarke's novel that specified the exquisite details, including crystalline carbon fiber for the cable and ``spider'' construction methods. 

Ideas like this one are often born at the border of science fiction and engineering. And the genesis may be blurred further by the fact that many influential fiction writers are accomplished scientists -- Robert L. Forward, Gregory Benford, and Vernor Vinge, to name just three. So it's no surprise that novelists, scientists, and engineers may all have a hand in new technologies such as solar sails to power spacecraft on interplanetary flights. The sail idea was shuttled among fictional and technical writings before the Japanese space program actually tested one this summer. Likewise, ideas for ``terraforming'' Mars to give it a livable atmosphere have long been seriously debated at NASA, where many admire writer Kim Stanley Robinson for the meticulous scientific projections in his 1990s novels Red Mars, Green Mars, and Blue Mars. 

Earthbound tales of the future also showcase inventions. Many novels, such as Neal Stephenson's The Diamond Age (2000), explore nanotechnology. Travelers in Stephenson's world are identified by airborne nanosensors as they enter the gates of fortress cities. Books, in this world, are built of nanoparticles. These books can learn about their readers and modify their contents to better teach or entertain them. 

TO LEARN THE LEXICON OF THE FUTURE: In The Futurological Congress (1971), Stanislaw Lem writes that ``A man can control only what he comprehends, and comprehend only what he is able to put into words.'' Karel Capek faced that challenge when he dreamed up humanlike creatures, born in vats, that rise up against their masters in his 1920 play R.U.R. He called them robots, derived from the Czech for labor, and the word entered every major language. In a similar spirit, William Gibson named cyberspace in Neuromancer (1984). What words await us? In Alastair Reynolds' Revelation Space (2000), people swallow ``medichines'' that assemble themselves in the body to treat diseases. Ursula K. Le Guin dreamed up ``ansibles,'' devices that use novel physics to communicate across galaxies. And in Lem's futurology, cops in a ``psychemized'' society spray a drug called Euphoril for crowd control. 

TO EXPLORE SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES: Innovations change our behavior. Trains make us run on time. The automobile begat the highway begat the suburb begat the shopping mall begat children spending time wandering in Consumerland after school instead of playing in the neighborhood. Science Fiction tells us where such inventions are heading -- and where they will take our children. Scientists or engineers may predict, for example, how implants of neurons might confer special abilities. But it takes stories like Revelation Space to flesh that out, asking who will be able to afford the implants -- and who might be forced to have them. 

In Beggars in Spain (1991), Nancy Kress imagines a ``genemod'' technique that makes sleep unnecessary. Instantly the time available for work and study increases by 50%. Since the treatment is expensive, the advantages are distributed unevenly. The sleepless class evolves over decades into an envied, feared, and sometimes hated minority. Sure enough, today, use of an antinarcolepsy drug called Provigil, from Cephalon Inc., is spreading among people with no such medical complaints, and more drugs like this are on the way. 

And then there is Robinson's Mars series. It speculates about the technology required to terraform a planet so people could live there. But the books also describe a bitter environmental struggle pitting ``greens'' who believe they have the right to transform Mars against ``reds'' who will do anything to keep it pristine. Does science fiction really influence everyday events? The U.S. Marine Corps thinks so: Its Commandant's Reading List includes Sun Tzu's The Art of War alongside Heinlein's militaristic Starship Troopers (1959). 

TO INSPIRE YOUNG MINDS: Science fiction not only entertains but also inculcates in young fans a passion for science. Donna Shirley, who managed a billion-dollar Mars Exploration Program at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, was captivated as a child by Ray Bradbury's The Martian Chronicles and Clarke's The Sands of Mars. After reading Clarke's serious accounts of space flight, domed cities, and the reshaping of Mars itself, ``It was clear to me that space exploration wasn't just fantasy,'' recalls Shirley, now the director of the Science Fiction Museum & Hall of Fame in Seattle, funded by info tech entrepreneur Paul G. Allen. ``I thought, 'Gosh, I could do this.''' In a world where science and engineering can begin to tackle almost as many challenges as the mind can imagine, we need science fiction to bridge the gaps, bedazzle us, and make the future real. 


...And More
          
          MIND OVER MATTER
 In Theodore Sturgeon's 1953 novel, More Than Human, gifted individuals manipulate objects with their minds. Psycho-kinesis is still a parlor trick, but neuroscientists such as John Donoghue at Brown University and Cyberkineticscan capture and decode brain signals, enabling animals -- even humans -- to perform tasks on a computer using only their minds.
MACHINE MENTORS
          The idea of machines teaching humans goes back to Yevgeny Zamyatin's 1920 dystopic novel, We, which inspired both Aldous Huxley and George Orwell. Today, with programs like Cognitive Tutor, from a Carnegie Mellon University spin-off, teaching software can scope out a student's skills and customize the course work to the individual.
          
          STELLAR POWER
          David Goodstein's Out of Gas: The End of the Age of Oil (2004) describes research on how to collect solar energy in space and transmit it to earth at microwave frequencies, at per-watt costs that could some day be cheaper than fossil fuels. Isaac Asimov articulated that idea in his 1941 short story, ``Reason,'' which was later included in I, Robot (1950.)
  

photograph | Photograph: Robots...A cop named Del Spooner (Will Smith) battles a bot called Sonny in this summer's I, Robot. The nimble creatures in this film seem to be a few dozen generations more advanced than today's humanoid robots, such as Honda Motor's Asimo, one of the few mechanical bipeds that can navigate stairs. (L TO R) PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE IMAGE WORKS; ITSUO INOUYE/AP/WIDE WORLD | photograph | Photograph: Teleportation...A teleportation experiment runs amok in The Fly (1986), with Jeff Goldblum. Human teleportation may be centuries in the future, but researchers like Christian Roos (right) at the University of Innsbruck, Austria, have succeeded in transferring so-called quantum states from one atom to another -- a technique known as quantum teleportation. (L TO R) PHOTOGRAPHS BY C. LACKNER/EPA/SIPA PRESS; KOBAL COLLECTION | photograph | Photograph: Genetic Resurrection...Michael Crichton's Jurassic Park (1990), scientists clone dinosaurs using DNA from blood in a mosquito trapped in amber millions of years ago. Last year, at Advanced Cell Technology, scientists cloned an endangered banteng (right) using cells retrieved from an animal that had been dead for several decades. But it has proved extremely difficult to obtain intact DNA from long-lost critters such as woolly mammoths -- extinct for about 12,000 years. (L TO R) PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF ADVANCED CELL TECHNOLOGY; PHOTOFEST | photograph | Photograph: Exoskeletons...Technical plausibility wasn't a concern when Sony Pictures and Marvel created this version of Doc Ock, the scientist fused with a robot in Spider-Man 2. Yet the Pentagon hopes to merge computer science and mechanical engineering to augment human prowess. It has doled out research grants to develop muscular exoskeletons like this one (right), from the University of California at Berkeley, to jack up the carrying capacity of a soldier, fireman, or factory hand. (L TO R) PHOTOGRAPHS BY SONY PICTURES/PHOTOFEST; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY 


Document BW00000020041007e0ab0000i


More Like This

 Article 415 *******************    



Editorials

How to Fire Up The Innovation Machine; Financial risk-taking is the fuel that powers the process of change 

Staff 
773 words 
11 October 2004
BusinessWeek
240
Volume 3903
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

The 75th Anniversary issue of BusinessWeek is a tribute to the power of innovation. In the years since the magazine was founded in September, 1929, technological and scientific breakthroughs have given us jet travel, antibiotics, computers, high-yield crops, television, space exploration, the Internet, genomics, cell phones, and a host of other advances. Yet innovation remains an enigma. As Asia begins to join the U.S. and Europe in building high-tech, high-growth economies, the search to unlock the secrets of innovation is quickening. Fortunately, we have learned valuable lessons in recent years in how to nurture the ecology of innovation. Here are some of them: 

INNOVATION CAN BE TAUGHT. It is not culturally determined. There was a time, not long ago, when the conventional wisdom decreed that ``Confucian cultures cannot innovate.'' They were said to be too hierarchical -- with education being by rote learning. Only Western cultures, especially the U.S. and Europe, were said to be able to create the new. 

Yet today, Korea is a leader in digital displays, electronic gaming, and wireless telecom. China produces advanced computer graphics and synthetic-language software. Indeed, innovation is sprouting across Asia as colleges and universities expand and as curriculums are transformed. India is building a cadre of highly trained engineers and programmers from the Indian Institute of Technology. Japan is renewing its commitment to cutting-edge products in nanotech, auto engine technology, and electronics. In short, Asians are discovering that they are not prisoners of their past. 

INNOVATION CAN BE MANAGED. Corporations have long been stymied by innovation's elusive nature. Only a fraction of all innovation ultimately pays off. But new research in improving the ``hit rate'' of innovation is letting corporations choose the right strategies to boost their chances of success. And it's not just high-tech companies that are succeeding. Staid consumer-products giant Procter & Gamble and Korean electronics producer Samsung Group have remade themselves by combining their technological strengths in chemicals and electronics with new ethnographic and behavior practices from anthropology and psychology to bring them closer to the needs and wants of their customers. 

P&G, Samsung, and others like them put great energy into learning what their customers crave -- and into designing their innovation process to satisfy them. So close are they to their customers that they are beginning to co-create with them. In what is fast becoming an era of ubiquitous invention, low-cost production, and international distribution, success increasingly goes to those companies who focus on creating better things with their customers, not for them. 

INNOVATION CAN BE SPURRED. Risk-taking speeds up the pace of innovation. The glorious sight of the private, manned SpaceShipOne rocketing to the edge of space is a testament to the role of private capital in innovation. Financed largely by Microsoft billionaire Paul Allen, SpaceShipOne is a completely original vehicle for getting people into space -- at a fraction of the shuttle's cost. Virgin Group's Richard Branson is licensing SpaceShipOne's design to take tourists to space by 2008. 

Nations around the world are trying to learn the lesson of American financial risk-taking. Innovation generates options on future products and services. Successful innovation requires a well-developed capital market that allows people to invest in these possibilities to see if they are The Next Big Thing. No country beats the U.S. at this -- yet. Its huge venture-capital industry has billions to fund new companies. Its IPO market allows first-round winners to scale up by going public. Its huge stock market has enough depth to spread the risk of new ventures. And its low taxes on capital gains reward people for taking that risk. Ebay, Amazon, Genentech, and Google were all born out of risk-taking. 

Continental Europe has traditionally struggled with encouraging and rewarding risk. Despite Europe's incredible record with invention, its ability to finance new companies has been weak. Europe is trying to do better and Asia must as well. There is a strong tradition of entrepreneurialism in Asia. It needs risk-taking finance to take innovation and make it an engine of growth. 

At a time of intense division, with deep political and religious fault lines splitting the world, innovation stands out as a powerful integrative force. It ties countries, companies, and consumers together in creating value, solving problems, and generating wealth. An innovation economy demands that society be open, dynamic, educated, international, and risk-taking. Given a chance, innovation can improve all our lives. 

Document BW00000020041007e0ab0001c


More Like This

 Article 416 *******************    



The Innovation Economy -- What's Ahead: Nanotech

Universe In A Grain Of Sand; Scientists are finding that ultratiny materials behave in unexpected ways. 

By Stephen Baker and Adam Aston 
1,849 words 
11 October 2004
BusinessWeek
138
Volume 3903
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

It was a shining moment. Four years ago in a University of Texas chemistry lab in Austin, two professors, Brian Korgel and Keith P. Johnston, placed bits of silicon in a pressurized titanium chamber. They poured in a brew of solvents and then heated it to 932F. What emerged from this pressure cooker were itsy-bitsy crystals of silicon, visible only under the most powerful microscopes. But something was very peculiar about silicon at this atomic scale. It wasn't its usual sandy self. Far from it. These so-called nanocrystals, when hitched to electrical current, emitted steady light. That glow attracted venture capitalists. Hungry for advances in the budding field of the ever-so-tiny -- nanotechnology -- they financed a lighting startup, InnovaLight Inc., and pushed the inventors to file a dozen patents. These days the new company, based in the dry hills west of Austin, is engineering those crystals for the marketplace. 

These specks are as tiny next to a soccer ball as that ball is to earth. Yet InnovaLight is betting that gazillions of them eventually will light up homes and offices. ``We want to replace the light bulb,'' says InnovaLight CEO Paul Thurk. 

In labs throughout the world, from research universities to blue-chip multinationals, scientists are weaving nanoparticles -- measured by the billionth of a meter -- into outsized dreams. They see these bits eventually targeting and destroying cancerous tumors, revolutionizing electricity generation with ultra-efficient solar cells, and forming into platoons of microscopic disease monitors to be deployed inside the human body. They're planning for the day when semiconductors built of nanoparticles replace silicon -- and usher in an age of computers powerful enough to rival the human mind. There's even a plan to link earth to a space station with a pillar built of superstrong nano materials, stretching thousands of miles straight up. 

A VAST CHEMISTRY SET 

THESE OUTSIZE AMBITIONS would amount to a dizzying to-do list for any single technology. But that's where nano's name sows confusion. Think of nano not as a technology but as a minute scale of engineering. An assortment of marvelous tools -- from atomic-force microscopes to powerful imaging software -- has cast open the doors of the atomic world to researchers everywhere. This gives them a rich universe to explore. Three centuries ago, scientists marked a similar advance when they peered through the first microscopes and witnessed the teeming world of microbes and protozoa. That set them on the path to modern medicine. Their heirs today have first crack at manipulating the very building blocks of matter. 

The job ahead, which promises to be a defining enterprise for the 21st century, is to reengineer, atom by atom, the physical world. Why bother? Scientists are discovering every day that even familiar materials can behave altogether differently when reduced to ultratiny pieces. Break down gold into small enough bits and it becomes a catalyst. Other materials emit light or turn into superconductors of electricity. Why the differences? Mysteries still abound. While scientists understand that electrical properties undergo transformations at these nano sizes, says Texas' Korgel, they still struggle to understand many of the changes -- and more to predict them. 

The result is that nanoscientists face what amounts to a vast chemistry set full of new materials and tantalizing possibilities. Biologists, physicists, chemists, and electrical engineers have the chance to invent materials at the molecular level and create tailor-made metals, fabrics, tissues, and membranes. ``Nanoscience is about redoing everything,'' says Chad A. Mirkin, director of the Nanotechnology Institute at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. ``Everything, when miniaturized, will be new.'' 

To be sure, the transforming potential of nanotechnology generates its share of hype. Similar revolutions, most recently in biotech, have delivered on only a fraction of their promise. And plenty of nano initiatives are certain to run aground between the lab and the marketplace. InnovaLight's bid to replace the light bulb, for example, is just one in a galaxy of nano long shots. What's more, concerns about nanoparticles polluting the environment could fuel opposition to new materials and create regulatory hurdles. And schemes to unleash nano agents inside the body, whether to zap cancer cells or to break down a diabetic's glucose, must first demonstrate conclusively that the agents won't pile up harmfully in the body or seep -- heaven forbid -- into the brain. 

Yet even if certain applications fall flat and timetables run amok, there's no turning back from research on the nano frontier -- not now that scientists the world over are exploring its wonders. Such a retreat would be akin to telling Dutch biologist Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1668 to toss his microscope in the nearest canal and settle for squinting at germs with the naked eye. What's more, entire industries are banking on advances in nanotechnology not just for enhancements but for salvation. 

Take semiconductors. For decades chipmakers have been shrinking their circuitry and jamming more and more transistors onto wafers of silicon. This relentless process has doubled computing power per chip about every 18 months, as predicted more than three decades ago by Intel Corp. co-founder Gordon E. Moore. But Moore's law may be bumping up against its limits. 

Chips are getting mighty crowded. The insulation that protects ultrafine metallic wires is becoming so thin -- in places only a few atoms thick -- that electrons can tunnel through it, hurting performance. Worse, each new transistor generates extra heat. Soon there will be so many that some chips could reach the temperatures of rocket nozzles -- and melt. ``We know the road ahead will hold through 2015,'' says Paolo A. Gargini, Intel's director for technology strategy. ``But by 2020 we'll have to enter a new regime.'' 

Enter the carbon nanotube, the closest thing yet to a jack-of-all-trades in the nano world. Discovered 13 years ago by a Japanese researcher, these cylindrical wisps made of carbon atoms are shaping up to be a pillar of the nano age. They are as much as 100 times stronger than steel, and they can be tuned to resist electricity or to conduct it efficiently, emitting little heat. The hope is that nanotubes could provide both the structure and the circuity of a future generation of semiconductors. That would give the chip industry a new lease on life. And the resulting explosion of computing power would fuel innovations in every field of science. Think of modeling the brain, of planting immense computing power into artificial ears and eyes, of forecasts that pinpoint the path of tomorrow's tornadoes. 

MEMORY EXPLOSION 

TECH COMPANIES ARE just starting to piece together this vision. At IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center, researchers have assembled prototype nanocircuits. But they're still far away from a mass-scale technology that could power the $200 billion chip industry. ``Going from lab to development to production, there are many oceans to cross,'' says Venu Menon, Texas Instruments' vice-president for silicon technology development. 

For the next decade, look for nanotubes to take up supporting roles in computing -- starting with a splash in memory. At a Woburn (Mass.) startup called Nantero Inc., researchers are putting together a high-performance memory stash made entirely of nanotubes. Billions of them are dropped on a chip, like a microscopic plate of spaghetti. Within this thicket, each strand can capture a bit of digital information, bending to form the one and staying flat for zero. Nantero, which is nearing the manufacturing stage, aims eventually to develop chips that pack a terabyte of data -- 1,000 gigabytes, about the contents of a municipal library -- onto a space the size of a credit card. 

The miracles of miniaturization will provide medical researchers with powerful new tools, from arrays of tiny sensors to minuscule drug dispensers lodged in the body. This is nanobiotech. Despite fears of nano agents going haywire, research races ahead. In labs in Hayward, Calif., scientists at QuantumDot Corp. are experimenting with ``q-dots'' -- nano-size semiconductors that glow in different colors. By tweaking their size and coating, researchers can dispatch particles to different kinds of cells. In studies, the q-dots have lit up the lymph systems of pigs in great detail, making it easy for doctors to identify diseased areas. Others hope to use the same process to target and cook cancer cells. 

That's ambitious, but it's not in the rarified league of the space elevator. The idea is that the immense strength of carbon nanotubes would allow for the construction of a singular skinny beam a yard wide and tens of thousands of miles long. This pillar would extend straight up, like Jack's beanstalk, far beyond earth's atmosphere and hitch to a space station hovering in geosynchronous orbit. Little pods would shimmy up and down this stalk with provisions, carrying out the work now handled by rocket launches -- for one-thousandth the cost. 

Yes, it sounds absurd. But NASA-backed researchers aren't laughing. They're busy studying how to weave nanotubes into threads -- and those threads could later become cables. The nano frontier, they know, will be alive with surprises, many of them still beyond imagination. And who knows? If nano makes good on even a handful of today's visions, from replacing silicon to fighting cancer, someday the space elevator might sound like a sensible idea. 


Nanotech's Grand Vision

 Groundbreaking advances in nanotechnology are expected to spread through the economy, shaking up entire industries

 FIGHT CANCER
 VISION: Sensors will be able to detect a single cancer cell and will help guide nanoparticles that can cook tumors from the inside out, leaving healthy cells alone.
 PROGNOSIS: Diagnostics will hit the market within three years. But treatments carry far higher risk. Testing and government approvals will delay them for the next decade.

 TRANSFORM ENERGY
 VISION: Nano-enhanced solar panels will feed cheap electricity onto superconducting power lines made of carbon nanotubes.
 PROGNOSIS: Next-generation panels will emerge this decade in Japan, which leads in the technology and suffers from higher energy prices.

 REPLACE SILICON
 VISION: Carbon nanotubes will take over when silicon peters out, leading to far faster chips that need less power than today's.
 PROGNOSIS: IBM has built working nanocircuits. But in the factory chipmakers must be able to make billions of them. The transition is unlikely before 2015.

 TRAVEL TO SPACE
 VISION: Podlike ``crawlers'' will carry cargo thousands of miles up a carbon-nanotube cable to a space station -- for billions less than rocket launches
 PROGNOSIS: Today the longest nanotubes are mere millimeters. To make miles of cable, scientists must learn how to weave these into threads. A working cable is at least 20 years away.

  

photograph | Photograph: NANOTUBE Carbon wires a billionth of a meter wide COURTESY OF IBM | photograph | Photograph: GOODBYE TO BULBS? InnovaLight's Thurk is betting that silicon nano-crystals will illuminate the future PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS COVATTA 


Document BW00000020041007e0ab0002d


More Like This

 Article 417 *******************    



The Innovation Economy -- Global Hot Spots: Sili

An Old Hotbed With New Crops; This time around, the Valley is nurturing startups that combine info tech with emerging technologies. 

By Jim Kerstetter With Robert D. Hof in San Mateo, Calif., and Bruce Einhorn in Hong Kong 
3,014 words 
11 October 2004
BusinessWeek
164
Volume 3903
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

For nearly 50 years, Silicon Valley has been a marvel of reinvention through innovation. Every decade or so, a new generation of companies has come along to spark the local economy. After the granddaddies of the Valley's high-tech industry, such as Hewlett-Packard and Fairchild Semiconductor International, there were Intel and Apple Computer in the wild early days of the personal computer. Then computer networks became de rigueur in corporations, and Cisco Systems, Oracle, and Sun Microsystems rose to prominence. In the 1990s, Netscape Communications Corp. cooked up a spiffy Web browser and started the Internet revolution. Even today, years after the dot-com bubble burst, Valley Net companies like Yahoo!, Google, and eBay are changing the way people do business. 

But along the 45-mile stretch of Highway 101 from San Francisco to San Jose, there's a nagging question these days: What's next? The anxiety is fueled by the employment picture. The number of jobs in the region has plummeted 20% since 2001, to 840,000, the steepest loss since the Valley's fortunes were fashioned from silicon. The tech industry's prospects offer little comfort. While some analysts believe the information-technology industry can resume growing at its historical average of nearly 10% annually, others see it languishing at only 3% to 5% annually for the foreseeable future. That's the kind of growth expected from Rust Belt businesses, like the automotive industry. 

Is Silicon Valley becoming the digital Detroit? Or can it reinvent itself one more time? Look closely and you'll see that the process is already beginning. University labs are bubbling with unorthodox ideas. Entrepreneurs are building startups of a different species than traditional high-tech companies. And venture capital is following. The Valley's best and brightest are heading off in new directions, blending info tech with biotech and emerging material sciences such as nanotechnology. This cross-pollination is producing hybrid companies that will play a critical role in the region's efforts to remain the center of gravity for innovation. ``The key is to look in the white spaces between disciplines,'' says John Seely Brown, the former head of the famed Xerox Corp. Palo Alto Research Center and now a visiting scholar at the University of Southern California's Annenberg Center for Communication. 

Think of this as Silicon Valley: Next Generation. A new crop of startups offers a peek into the future. XDx Inc., in South San Francisco, Calif., is using information technology to improve the monitoring of heart-transplant patients' immune systems. Silicon Genetics, based in Redwood City, Calif., has developed software tools to make it easier to research human genetics. And Santa Clara's Peribit Networks Inc. is applying biological research to data networking. 

LURE OF INDIA 

THE VALLEY'S STARTUPS aren't being built in the same old ways, either. Increasingly, they're hiring many of their employees elsewhere -- often overseas. Two Valley venture firms, JumpStartUp Fund Advisors and WestBridge Capital Partners LLC, even specialize in so-called cross-border startups that split their staffs between India and the Valley. The top execs, along with the sales and marketing staffs, typically are in the States, to be close to customers, while the engineering staff, including most of research and development, is in India. ``Over the next five years, there are going to be quite a few of these companies funded,'' says M.R. Rangaswami, co-founder of Sand Hill Group, a Valley-based consulting company specializing in Indian business. 

The new regime in Silicon Valley means this round of reinvention won't be anything like those of the past. In particular, there's unlikely to be the kind of job growth that followed the personal-computer and Internet booms. The cost of living in the Valley is now so prohibitive that cash-strapped startups can't afford to hire many people here at the salaries they need. The median price of a single-family home has shot up 240% over the last nine years, to $640,000. The result: Only 21% of the people who live in Silicon Valley now earn the median income necessary to buy a house, down from 36% in 1995, according to Leslie Appleton-Young, chief economist at the California Association of Realtors. That's one reason why the Valley is expected to see just 1% to 2% growth in employment for the next several years, according to Economy.com. 

Still, there's little question that the Valley will continue to create important, innovative companies. The region has been blessed with a rare combination of venture capital, good weather, and institutions such as Stanford University and the University of California at Berkeley that are loaded with academic and research talent. Most of all, the Valley has fostered a culture of risk-taking, where talented hotshots itch to turn great ideas into corporate winners. This ethos is alive and well in the Valley and continues to draw ambitious entrepreneurs from far and wide. ``We have a habitat for new companies here that's unique,'' says William F. Miller, a professor emeritus at Stanford and the former chief executive at SRI International. ``All the services are here, and they all specialize in dealing with startups -- the banks, the lawyers, the marketing firms. It all permits a company to move more quickly and get good advice.'' 

And don't discount the value of money, mountains and mountains of it. Venture capital, so important to nourishing the ideas of young entrepreneurs, is still Valley-centric, with its epicenter along Palo Alto's famed Sand Hill Road. About 38% of the venture funding in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2004 went to companies in the Valley. That's twice the share of the runner-up, Boston, and almost exactly the same rate as it was 10 or 15 years ago. ``It's very difficult to find an area where there's more brewing, at least for a U.S. investor,'' says Michael Moritz, a partner at the venture-capital firm Sequoia Capital. 

Even so, the Valley must contend with the likelihood that it won't be the world's singular nexus for the funding and development of innovation. Silicon Valley's share of biotech spending in the second quarter, for instance, was 29%, just seven percentage points ahead of Boston. ``There was a time when venture capitalists cared about where they were investing,'' says Daniel Primack, editor-at-large at Venture Capital Journal, part of the research firm Thomson Financial Venture Economics. ``But venture capitalists are looking everywhere for deals now.'' 

They have to. Critical masses of talent are forming far outside the Valley's borders. Bangalore, India, and several regions in China, for instance, are emerging as important centers for software development, tech services, and low-cost manufacturing. These high-tech workforces are beginning to create their own entrepreneurs, and both financiers and high-tech companies are taking notice. ``The innovation's still bubbling in Silicon Valley,'' says Shane V. Robison, chief strategy and technology officer at Hewlett-Packard Co. ``I think it always will. It just isn't the only place that it's happening.'' 

EUREKA MOMENTS 

THE MOST SUCCESSFUL startups may be those with one foot firmly planted in info tech and the other in emerging technologies. Peribit Networks is one such hybrid of the Valley's past and future. The Santa Clara company was founded in 2000 by a Stanford doctoral student, Amit P. Singh, who was doing bioinformatics research, designing algorithms and computational models to speed up the analysis of DNA sequences by recognizing hidden patterns. When Singh finished his PhD, he was wondering what to do next. His ``eureka'' moment came when he realized his work could be applied to routing computer traffic over networks. ``They took technology designed for the genetics world and moved it into the communications world,'' says David Ladd, a general partner at Mayfield, one of Peribit's investors. 

At Singh's alma mater, they're trying to make those breakthroughs a lot more common. Stanford opened the 146,000-square-foot James H. Clark Center in October, 2003, to provide a place where experts in info tech, biotech, and the material sciences can share ideas and, just maybe, spark a few business plans. The space age-looking center, part of Stanford's interdisciplinary biosciences program called Bio-X, will house 600 entrepreneurs and researchers when it reaches capacity. The school is providing two-year, $150,000 grants for people who want to do interdisciplinary research. ``The health of the Valley depends on really new things coming along,'' says Matthew P. Scott, a cancer researcher and biologist who heads the Bio-X program. 

The Stanford research center also has an eye toward the business community. About 10% of the spaces in the center will be reserved for visiting academics and people in private industry. Scott knows that whatever comes out of the Clark Center, or similar centers being built at nearby University of California campuses in San Francisco, Berkeley, and Santa Cruz, won't turn into big companies overnight. But he has an eye on the long term. ``The growth of the Valley has been driven by a small number of very powerful technologies that utterly transformed the world. But these are outgrowths of technologies that have been developing for many, many years,'' he says. The original programming protocols for the Internet, for example, were developed 26 years before Netscape went public. 

While such initiatives could pay dividends down the road, some startups are going it alone. In a warehouse district of Redwood City, sandwiched into a row of auto yards, is Silicon Genetics. The company's programmers and genetics experts are working on software tools that make it easier to make sense of the volumes of data unearthed in human genome research. It was founded by Andrew Conway, a biochemistry researcher at Stanford. Conway grew frustrated with the lack of good tools to help him do his job. So he built his own and created a company to sell it with about $100,000 he made playing the stock market. ``That is what you do around here,'' laughs Conway, a 34-year-old Australian who came to California for graduate school. 

It's little companies like Silicon Genetics that are necessary to breath life into the Valley and its more mature companies. On Aug. 23, Agilent Technologies Inc., the tech-equipment giant that was Hewlett-Packard's original instrument and measuring business before it was spun off in 1999, acquired the five-year-old company and its 50 employees for an undisclosed sum. Palo Alto-based Agilent plans to add Silicon Genetics' two main software products to its growing portfolio of biomedical research software. The room full of programmers and PhDs will be moving out of the little office and getting new digs with the rest of Agilent by early next year. Agilent is turning to a startup to help it reinvent itself around genomics research. 

Reinvention takes time, however. And some wonder if the Valley has the patience to wait for those new things. Valley investors are especially wary of biotech and materials research companies because of the inconsistency of the payoff. Roger McNamee, for example, the co-founder of Silver Lake Partners, prefers to steer clear of biotech. ``The capital intensity is very high, and the probability of success is very low,'' he says. 

A LITTLE HERE, A LITTLE THERE 

STILL, MANY ENTREPRENEURS are forming companies in innovative ways that don't require as much capital as was needed before. Some are opting for offshoring jobs from day one. Take Conformia Software Inc. Based in Redwood City, the three-year-old software company has about 30 employees in Silicon Valley, including the executive team, marketing, and sales. An additional 50 to 75 employees are in Bangalore, including nearly all of Conformia's engineering. ``When you're a startup and you're trying to conserve capital, it makes sense,'' says co-founder Neil K. Kataria. 

It's the new Valley startup model: Keep your top engineers, sales, and marketing people local. If other jobs can be done elsewhere for less, send them there. Of course, that won't lead to a lot of new jobs for the local folks. But as long as Stanford and Berkeley have creative students, as long as San Jose averages 300 days of sunshine per year, and as long as the venture-capital community pours dollars into local startups, the Valley should continue to lead the world in joining invention with a business plan -- the most tangible definition of innovation. From a region so accustomed to reinventing itself, the world should expect nothing less. 


 Booms...And The Occasional Bust

 Silicon Valley's business cycles are tied closely to innovation in the computer industry. After the historic boom of the late 1990s, it's not clear what the Next Big Thing will be to get the Valley growing again.

 1968 - Semiconductor giant Intel is founded by Gordon Moore and Robert Noyce, two employees of tech pioneer Fairchild Semiconductor. Intel, under the leadership of Moore, Noyce, and Andrew Grove, becomes the model for Silicon Valley's egalitarian engineering culture.

 1976 - Apple Computer is founded by Stephen Wozniak and Steven Jobs, beginning the personal-computer boom. Over the next nine years, the Valley's workforce increases by more than 60%.

 1977 - Database software maker Oracle is founded by Lawrence Ellison, Robert Miner, and Edward Oates.

 1981 - IBM selects Intel's computer chips for its new PC. Intel, which had focused more on data storage, shifts to making microprocessors for the growing PC market.

 1982 - Corporate computer maker Sun Microsystems is founded by Scott McNealy, Vinod Khosla, William Joy, and Andreas Bechtolsheim.

 1984 - Apple releases its initial Macintosh, the first affordable computer that allows people to use a mouse to click on icons instead of typing complex computer commands.

 1986 - The PC business begins to consolidate around a handful of manufacturers, and the Valley loses 3% of its jobs in one year. Lacking a major new innovation, the Valley's growth stays slow for the next eight years.

 1991 - The Cold War ends, and the Valley loses nearly 3% of its jobs over the next year because of cuts to defense spending that hurt big contractors such as Lockheed and United Technologies. Employment bottoms at 790,300 in March, 1992.

 1994 - Netscape Communications Corp. is founded by James Clark and Marc Andreessen. Netscape popularizes the Web browser and starts the commercialization of the Internet.

 1995 - Netscape goes public, igniting the dot-com boom. In five years, the Valley's workforce increases nearly 30%. Employment peaks in December, 2000, at just over 1 million jobs in Greater San Jose.

 2000 - The boom ends. Over the next three years, the Valley loses 212,900 jobs. By July, 2004, total employment is 841,000 jobs, just 4% greater than at the beginning of 1995.




  


 Silicon Valley's Strengths and Weaknesses

 The Valley continues to be a world leader in technological innovation. But behind every attribute of the local economy, there's also a downside.

 PLENTY OF TALENTED WORKERS...
 More than 30 years of high-technology entrepreneurs have created a strong workforce of engineers, tech marketing experts, venture capitalists, and legal experts necessary to get small companies off the ground.

 AS LEADERS PLAN FOR FUTURE GROWTH...
 Through groups like the Silicon Valley Joint Task Force, local business, government, and academic leaders are planning for the Next Big Thing, which could come out of the convergence of info tech, biotech, and material sciences. The Bio-X Center at Stanford University was created for the study of such convergence, and similar research centers are opening in University of California campuses in nearby San Francisco, Berkeley, and Santa Cruz.

 VENTURE CAPITALISTS PREFER SILICON VALLEY...
 Silicon Valley is still the biggest recipient of venture-capital spending. In the second quarter, $2.13 billion in VC money was invested in Silicon Valley companies, more than twice the next highest recipient, Boston, and 38.2% of all the VC money invested in the U.S.

 ...BUT THE COST OF LIVING IS SCARY
 The Valley's 6.2% unemployment rate is still above the 5.5% U.S. figure. One reason why is that wages have to match the out-of-sight local cost of living. The median price for a single-family home in the Valley is $640,000, more than three times the national figure.

 ...BUT THEY WORRY ABOUT THE LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE
 Local leaders worry that a lack of affordable housing, cuts to the public school system, a poor mass-transit system, and a crumbling road infrastructure will limit Silicon Valley's ability to grow. Indeed, commuters on all bridges over San Francisco Bay may have to pick up the tab for an overbudget earthquake retrofitting project on the Bay Bridge, which connects San Francisco to Oakland. That project alone could end up costing more than $5.1 billion.

 ...BUT IN BIOTECH, THE GAP IS CLOSING
 Silicon Valley's share of biotechnology venture capital was 29% of the total spent around the U.S. in the second quarter. By comparison, Boston received 22%. Clearly, the Valley's grip on biotech spending isn't as strong as it is in traditional technology sectors.

 Data: Venture Economics, Joint Venture Silicon Valley Task Force, California Association of Realtors, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics

  

illustration | Illustration: Chart: EMPLOYMENT IN SILICON VALLEY | photograph | Photograph: R&D Scott's Stanford program will let experts from different fields cooperate PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD MORGENSTEIN | photograph | Photograph: INTEL, 1968 PHOTOGRAPH BY LIANE ENKELIS | photograph | Photograph: JOBS, MAC 1984 PHOTOGRAPH BY DIANA WALKER/GETTY IMAGES | photograph | Photograph: NETSCAPE, 1994 PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM MERCER MCLEOD | photograph | Photograph: CONWAY Agilent recently swallowed his software startup PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD MORGENSTEIN 


Document BW00000020041007e0ab0002m


More Like This

 Article 418 *******************    



The Innovation Economy -- Global Hot Spots: Sili

Voices of Innovation: Roger McNamee; An innovator in venture-capital investing and co-founder of the Silver Lake Partners and Elevation Partners funds. 

Staff 
268 words 
11 October 2004
BusinessWeek
170
Volume 3903
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

What's your prognosis for Silicon Valley right now? 

Silicon Valley got banged up badly, but has come back very strong. The Valley remains the world's preeminent entrepreneurial community, and its relative advantage is greater than it was at the peak of the bubble. 

What companies intrigue you now? 

Think about the coolest companies in our economy: Google, Yahoo!, eBay, Apple Computer, Electronic Arts, Pixar, PDI/DreamWorks. Silicon Valley has long been a hotbed for semiconductors and computers, but now it's also a big player in media. 

What about technology for businesses? 

We are between waves of enterprise technology. There are some interesting things percolating, but they are less apparent than the innovations in consumer technology. The next big wave will come in Web services. It will take a few years to get the technology right, though. 

By the way, the venture community still has too much capital to invest, so money is going to areas that scare me. Nanotechnology and electric power technology are two examples. From where I sit, both offer more risk than return, at least in the near term. 

Does it concern you that foreign graduate students can't come to the U.S. or are staying away? 

Our immigration policy took a giant step backward because of fears associated with September 11. Making it hard for graduate students to come here does not make America safer. It makes us weaker. 

Document BW00000020041007e0ab0002n


More Like This

 Article 419 *******************    



The Innovation Economy -- The Promise of Innovat

This Way To The Future; From energy to biotech, we may be on the cusp of a new age of innovation. 

By Michael J. Mandel 
2,693 words 
11 October 2004
BusinessWeek
92
Volume 3903
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Seventy-five years is a mere blink of history's eye. Yet since 1929, when BusinessWeek was first published, the world has been transformed by profound innovation and technological wizardry. Three-quarters of a century ago, there were no safe and effective antibiotics, no jet travel, no commercial television, and no computers. Many died of routine infections. A five-day ocean voyage was the main way to get from America to Europe, and ``wireless'' meant the wood-paneled Radiola in the parlor. Since then our mastery of the physical and biological world has strengthened remarkably. Life expectancy has soared, and most citizens of the planet can look forward to being around for 65 years or more. The Green Revolution has transformed agriculture, and the earth can now feed a global population that has tripled since 1929. We've left dusty bootprints on the moon, created the Internet, and learned how to read the human genome. 

Thanks to these advances -- and a string of others -- workers are able to produce far more than they did in 1929. Output per hour in the U.S. has risen almost fivefold over the past 75 years, translating into an average climb of 2% a year in productivity. Many other industrialized countries have seen comparable gains, while developing countries have been able to take advantage of fast air travel and a near-instantaneous web of communication to become truly part of the global economy in a way that would not have been possible in the past. 

But as we consider the state of the Innovation Economy, it's clear that the march of technological progress has been uneven. In recent years, change has been far more rapid in information processing and health care than in energy, transportation, and manufacturing. In many industries we still depend on older technologies that date back to the 19th and early 20th centuries. The internal combustion engine was invented in Germany in the 1860s, Thomas Edison's first commercial electric power station opened in 1882, and today's process for turning bauxite into aluminum was first demonstrated in 1886. To someone from 1929, today's cars and gasoline pumps would seem familiar in function, if different in details, while today's computers would be completely mysterious. 

THE STAGE IS SET 

SO A FAIR QUESTION to ask is this: Should we expect the next 75 years to bring the same sort of exciting and radical innovation that has transformed information technology and health care? Or will the progress be slower and more incremental -- an elaboration of existing technologies and industries rather than the birthing of new ones? In short, where is the Innovation Economy heading? 

Making predictions about technological change is always perilous. But, as we hope to show in this Special Report, the global economy could be on the cusp of an age of innovation equal to that of the past 75 years. All the right factors are in place: Science is advancing rapidly, more countries are willing to devote resources to research and development and education, and corporate managers, too, are convinced of the importance of embracing change. 

Across the range of fields, from energy to biotech, and from software to autos, there are innovations brewing that could revolutionize our lives. In recent years scientists in different disciplines have been laying the foundations for nanotech, preparing the way for feats of engineering at the scale of atoms and molecules. Such small wonders could eventually lead to vastly faster computing devices based on carbon nanotubes, miniature medical probes, and new types of lights and solar cells. 

There are signs, too, that energy technology is about to make a dramatic leap forward, with the promise of efficient fuel cells, new approaches to solar power, and safer nuclear plants. Such advances have the potential, in the not-too-distant future, to overturn the economics of energy, making the world less dependent on oil and other fossil fuels. 

And in the biological sciences, the current limits on health and mortality may turn out to be a boundary waiting to be traversed. ``We are finding out how life works in such fundamental ways,'' says Susan L. Lindquist, director of the Whitehead Institute at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ``If we can leverage that to understand why things go wrong, it will have an amazing impact.'' Adds Kevin W. Sharer, CEO of biotech giant Amgen Inc.: ``I liken today to 1946, when the potential for computers and electronics was just emerging.'' 

Not coincidentally, this new wave of technologies is gathering force just as innovation has gone global. In the industrial countries, non-defense private and government spending on R&D has risen from 1.6% of gross domestic product in 1981 to 2.1% in 2002, the last year for which data are available. Published scientific research has increased by 40% since 1988, with the gains spread around the world. And many countries in Europe and Asia are following the U.S. lead and devoting more money to higher education, which produces a key input for innovation -- educated workers. 

What's more, the leading engine for innovation -- the U.S. -- is still going strong. True, there's justifiable concern among top scientists and corporate leaders that the U.S. could eventually fall behind its global rivals -- a ``quiet crisis,'' in the words of Shirley Ann Jackson, head of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. But at least for now, ``we still truly have the best graduate programs in science and engineering,'' says Jackson. ``And we have the kind of economic system and capital markets that support the exploitation of technological innovation.'' 

PRESSING NEEDS 

THE RATE AND PATH of innovation will be critical for determining the world's economic future. Indeed, having an innovative society may be more important for growth than having a high rate of capital investment. Since 1995 the share of national output going to business investment in the U.S. has averaged only 11.3%, almost identical to the previous two decades, and considerably lower than Japan. Yet U.S. productivity has surged because of the rapid adoption of new technology, in the form of the personal computer and the Internet. 

Without technological breakthroughs, it will be difficult to solve the most pressing long-term problems. It's hard to see, for example, how the fast-growing energy needs of emerging economies such as China and India can be met over the long term without new sources of energy. And providing affordable health care to aging populations around the world will be a challenge unless medical productivity dramatically improves -- and that won't happen until health-care technology advances far enough to reduce costs rather than increase them. 

Nor will it be possible to generate enough good jobs for American workers in the future without new innovative industries. The events of the 1990s reminded us how a technological breakthrough -- the Internet -- could inspire an employment boom and create whole new categories of occupations, just as innovations such as the automobile and railroads have in the past. More than ever, it's clear that America's prosperity depends on its ability to remain the global innovation leader. 

Innovations don't have to be technological breakthroughs, like the Internet. They can be more mundane advances in, for example, manufacturing or retailing or the reorganization of work processes within a corporation. The idea of ``lean manufacturing,'' introduced by Toyota Motor Corp. in the 1960s and '70s, showed how it was possible to increase the quality and reduce the cost of assembly-line production. Around the same time, the advent of ``big box'' retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which opened its first store in 1962, brought highly efficient logistics and tightly integrated supply chains to retailing. This innovation -- based in part on effective use of information technology -- is a key reason why retail productivity has risen so much faster in the U.S. than in Europe. More recently, eBay's ability to successfully run auctions online has opened up a sales channel that never existed before. 

In addition, the rapid pace of financial innovation -- mostly in the U.S. -- has made capital markets far more liquid and stable, translating into more innovation and growth. The first real venture-capital firm, American Research & Development, came into being in 1946, making it much easier to finance innovative startups. The invention of the credit card, introduced by Bank of America Corp. in 1958, gave middle-class Americans access to easy and immediate credit. And the creation of the mortgage-backed securities markets in the 1970s transformed the way that housing was financed, and enabled homeowners to tap into their home equity. 

But there are no guarantees, either for the global economy or for the U.S. It may take years or decades before scientific breakthroughs are translated into marketable technologies and products, and equally long before businesses can figure out how to make the best use of them. 

PITFALLS AHEAD 

THE WHOLE PROCESS of innovation is far more delicate and fragile than most people realize. It requires a climate that funds basic research and encourages risk-taking yet has the market discipline necessary to identify the best products and bring them to market. ``There's nothing preordained about innovation,'' says Joel Mokyr, president of the Economic History Assn. and a specialist in the history of technology. ``There are 100 ways that this process could go wrong.'' 

And even if an innovation boom occurs globally, the U.S. could still not get the full benefit. ``What we have is special and needs to be nurtured and enhanced,'' says Amgen's Sharer. ``Our comparative advantage could erode, and we could end up looking like a Germany or Japan, where innovation can't get an economic return.'' There are plenty of pitfalls that need to be avoided. Government funding for R&D and for graduate science and engineering education could be squeezed by big budget deficits. Corporations may pull back on R&D if intense price competition makes it too hard to profitably capture the benefits of innovation. 

Perhaps most worrisome, new terrorist attacks could engender even stronger security measures and increased military action worldwide. Terror, along with the security measures necessary to fight it, closes doors that should be open and impedes the free flow of ideas, goods, and people. 

Such impediments would be a disaster since global innovation offers some of the best hope for breakthroughs in sectors where innovation has dragged. For example, the gasoline-powered internal combustion engine has long been the mainstay for the auto industry. Since 1929, there has been a lot of incremental progress, such as automatic transmissions and fuel-injected engines, but most motor vehicles still run on petroleum products, despite their environmental disadvantages and the need to import large quantities of oil. To shake this technological inertia, and move to new forms of propulsion -- whether they are gas-electric hybrids, more efficient and less polluting diesels, or hydrogen-powered cars -- will require the combined competitive efforts of U.S., European, and Asian auto makers. 

More broadly, global R&D increases the odds of a revolution in energy generation and distribution, where the lack of change has been truly astonishing. In 1973, before the energy crisis of the 1970s, fossil fuels such as natural gas, gasoline, and coal accounted for 93% of all energy consumed in the U.S. Today, 30 years later, such ``old technology'' fuels still provide 86% of U.S. energy. 

NO CRYSTAL BALL 

EQUALLY IMPORTANT, nuclear power -- one of the biggest technological advances, and supposedly the ultimate source of cheap power when it was introduced in the 1950s -- turned out to be a bust. By the mid-'70s it was clear that nuclear power was far too expensive and too unsafe, and despite the high price of oil, U.S. utilities stopped ordering new nuclear plants after 1978. That was the high-water mark for energy innovation in the post-war era. 

But the frontiers of energy technology have finally started to move forward again, and it's a global effort. The leaders in solar power include Sharp from Japan and BP, as well as less well-known american companies such as Konarka Technologies and Nanosolar. Research in renewable energy such as wind power is done around the world. And even in nuclear power there are signs of change. China and South Africa are planning to test nuclear reactors of a new design that could be safer and more efficient, and researchers continue to explore nuclear fusion. 

It's telling that the first issue of BusinessWeek includes a full-page advertisement from Pacific Gas & Electric Co., enticing manufacturers to the San Francisco area by offering them natural gas to power their factories, a technology that is still in use. By comparison, the ad in the same issue from International Business Machines shows off pictures of ``accounting machines'' that are antiques today. 

There's a lesson here. In 1929, no one could have predicted that IBM's ``electric sorting machines'' would morph into today's lightning-fast computers. Today, no one can predict the changes that might come over the next 75 years. 

Ultimately, innovation is about continually pushing back the boundaries of what is possible. The true genius of capitalism is that it provides economic incentives for sustained innovation. Will the Information Revolution be followed by a Biotech or Energy or Nano Revolution? No one knows. But with more and more smart people around the world working on new technologies -- and the lure of riches if they succeed -- the odds are looking better than ever. 


 Innovation Runs Hot and Cold

 Where Change Has Been Explosive...

 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
 -- Television
 -- Transistors
 -- Microprocessors
 -- Fiber optics and lasers
 -- Internet
 -- Cell phones

 HEALTH CARE
 -- Antibiotics
 -- MRI and CT
 -- Antidepressants
 -- Heart surgery and pacemakers
 -- Transplants
 -- Oral contraceptives
 -- Minimally invasive surgery
 -- Biotechnology

 BUSINESS & FINANCE
 -- Lean manufacturing
 -- Supply-chain management
 -- Big-box retailing
 -- Mutual funds
 -- Financial derivatives (such as mortgage-backed securities)
 -- Venture capital
 -- Automated teller machines
 -- Credit cards

 ...And Where It Has Been Slower

 TRANSPORTATION
 -- Radial tires and automatic transmissions
 -- Containerized shipping
 -- Jet aircraft
 -- Radar
 -- Helicopters

 ENERGY
 -- Natural gas-powered turbines
 -- Nuclear power
 -- Solar energy

 MATERIALS & MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS
 -- Synthetic fibers (such as nylon)
 -- Fiber composites
 -- Photocopiers
 -- Instant photography
 -- Microwave ovens




   


 The Future of Innovation

 New Technologies

 NANOTECH
 -- The ability to create new materials from ``the bottom up'' could transform health care, manufacturing, and computing (page 138)
 ENERGY
 -- If energy prices stay high, new technologies may become economically viable faster than anyone expected (page 142)
 BIOLOGY
 -- Biotech's economic impact may eventually equal that of the microchip, while advances in medicine could push the frontiers of longevity (page 148)


 More Locations

 SILICON VALLEY
 -- Still the leader in venture capital, the Valley's companies are working on combining info tech with biotech and nanotech (page 164)
 ASIA
 -- Japan, long an R&D powerhouse, has been joined by such countries as India and China (pages 174 and 180)
 EUROPE
 -- Despite relatively weak spending on R&D, European corporations remain strong in key tech areas such as mobile telephones (page 186)


 A Commitment to Change

 MANAGEMENT
 -- Even stodgy companies understand that they must encourage serial innovation and open up to new ideas from the outside (page 194)
 GLOBAL SWEEP
 -- Utilizing the worldwide pool of knowledge and skills has become essential for the innovative company (page 201)
 RESOURCES
 -- To stay competitive, countries will have to spend more to support R&D and graduate education in science and engineering (page 225)

 Data: BusinessWeek

   

illustration | Illustration: Chart: THE GLOBAL COMMITMENT CHARTS BY ERIC HOFFMANN/BW | photograph | Photograph: NANO SCOPE At HP, studying the shape of ultra-tiny things to come PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE LABADESSA | photograph | Photograph: FREE AT LAST A Motorola exec shows off in New York, 1973 PHOTOGRAPH BY CORBIS | photograph | Photograph: HIGH ENERGY Researchers work toward controlled fusion PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN G. HENRY 


Document BW00000020041007e0ab0002y


More Like This

 Article 420 *******************    



Developments to Watch: FUEL CELLS

BUILDING A BETTER MEMBRANE 

Edited by Otis Port 
203 words 
18 October 2004
BusinessWeek
137
Volume 3904
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

It's just a thin sheet of plastic, but what a difference it may make in automotive fuel cells. PolyFuel claims it has developed a plastic membrane that enables fuel cells to deliver a better driving experience while trimming costs. 

The heart of a fuel cell is its membrane. Coated with a catalytic agent, the membrane coaxes electrons to leave hydrogen atoms, then pulls the nuclei -- ``naked'' protons -- through the membrane. The electrons, which get left behind, flow out as electricity. 

Since NASA developed the first fuel cells four decades ago, DuPont's Teflon has been the best material for membranes. But a Teflon membrane in a car cell costs $5,000. Also, it loses efficiency in hot weather and when the car climbs long, steep hills. 

PolyFuel's membrane is half as costly and shrugs off summer heat. And, says James Balcom, CEO of the Mountain View (Calif.) startup, it is engineered with nanoscale blocks to deliver 10% to 15% more juice. Spun off in 1999 by SRI International, PolyFuel so far has raised $40 million to introduce the results of 14 years of fuel-cell research at SRI. 

Document BW00000020041014e0ai0001u


More Like This

 Article 421 *******************    


First/Business Life/INNOVATION

Inside-the-box thinking 

Julie Schlosser 
215 words 
1 November 2004
Fortune
U. S. Edition
54
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

If Zach Kaplan and Keith Schacht had their way, everyone in corporate America would think inside the box. 

The pair run a two-year-old Chicago startup called Inventables, which four times a year sends a box of 20 odds and ends to subscribers at companies like P&G, GM, and Black & Decker. The idea is that creative types like engineers and designers, just by tinkering around with objects (from microaccelerometers to luminescent nanocrystals), will be inspired. The two spend most of their time brainstorming and meeting with vendors. "Sometimes we think up materials that would be cool if they existed," says Schacht. "So we Google them, and often they do." 

It may sound simplistic, but big companies figure that subscriptions--which start at $5,600 and cost up to $100,000 for an entire company--are a bargain if they generate big ideas. At Motorola the kits are used to "spark or expand the thinking of the people in our [R&D] program," says Art Paton, a senior learning consultant. Leslie Noone, a design manager at GM, says the company "is always looking for innovative materials that trigger our minds to go in new directions." -- Julie Schlosser 

COLOR PHOTO: JOSH HANER 


Document FORTU00020041019e0b10000z


More Like This

 Article 422 *******************    



Small Firm Hopes Its E-Paper Will Turn the Page on E-Book 

By Michelle Rama Dow Jones Newswires 
1,099 words 
3 November 2004
The Wall Street Journal
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Someday you may be able to get the latest Harry Potter novel the day it comes out, without leaving your house. 

You will just plug a blank book into your computer, make an online payment, and watch as the pages magically fill up with Harry Potter's latest adventures. The whole transaction will take minutes and the book will look like any other on your shelf. 

David O'Connor, founder and research director of 3Netics Corp., Redmond, Wash., hopes that day will come within two years. 

Mr. O'Connor says the electronic paper technology his seven-person firm is developing will revolutionize the publishing industry by eliminating inventory and taking production efficiency to new levels. It's not clear whether 3Netics is the only firm developing this type of technology, but if it works, publishers say, it would be the best thing to happen to electronic publishing, which has so far failed to catch on with consumers. 

But it won't be cheap. Mr. O'Connor estimates the blank book, microchip and coatings that are applied to the pages will cost about two cents a page to make, or $4 for the average paperback. But to receive the content, the book has to be plugged into a box that is connected to your computer. That box could cost as much as your computer -- more than $1,000. Right now, it costs less than 50 cents to print a typical 200-page paperback book. 

"We're still playing with the chemistry, but it's showing some promising results," Mr. O'Connor said of his printing technology, which he hopes will reshape the $23 billion U.S. book publishing industry. 

His research team has found a way to put readable text onto glass microscope slides, and is working on transferring that technology to paper. Mr. O'Connor estimates that a prototype is about three months away, but it will take at least two years before his company finds a way to mass-produce electronic paper, which is unlike anything currently on the market. 

Many companies, including Xerox Corp.'s Gyricon unit, Sony Corp. and Philips Electronics NV, have tried their hand at e-books. But the e-books available on the market today haven't posed a threat to paper and ink because readers often complain they are awkward, difficult to use and hard to read in outdoor light. In short, they lack the charming simplicity, ruggedness and durability of a real paper book. 

3Netics stumbled on a way to revolutionize printing that could turn e-books into real books through its efforts in nanotechnology. While conducting research using ink-jet printing and self-assembled monolayers that are used to build DNA and proteins, Mr. O'Connor discovered that he could coat a piece of paper with these monolayers and make words appear by sending electrical charges to individual "pixels" on the page, each of which has a unique address. 

Based on that research, he developed a system for printing books at home. The user takes a paperback or hard-cover book with the special coating on the pages and a microchip in the binding and connects it to the computer through a connecting box. The book's binding has a SIM card, much like the one that connects a cellphone to a charger. The SIM card connects to the box, which converts data from the online bookseller into electrical charges, which go into the book's binding. A connector along the binding edge of the paper receives the charges and sends them to the page. 

Mr. O'Connor, 48 years old, earned his first patent -- for a lawn-sprinkler timer -- at age 12. He says he will probably sell the e-paper technology to the highest bidder whom he thinks will put it to good use. Potential investors are "very excited," about electronic paper, he said, but his firm is awaiting patents on the technology. 

Jim Marggraff, co-founder of LeapFrog Enterprises Inc., Emeryville, Calif., and creator of the LeapPad children's interactive book, says such an idea is "neat from the flexibility perspective, but that comes always at a cost." 

"The challenge is, instead of buying books with standard bindings, this will undoubtedly be more expensive," said Mr. Marggraff, who has long been an observer of e-book and e-ink technologies. 

Those most likely to benefit from electronic paper, Mr. O'Connor said, are the booksellers. The technology will enable them to print a book on demand, preventing excess inventory. 

"Right now we're writing a 100-page book in about 10 minutes," he said. E-paper could potentially be used to print anything from magazines to textbooks, but that would depend on its speed. If the process can work quickly enough it could be used to print things that are mass-produced in a short period of time. 

Adam Rothberg, a spokesman from Viacom Inc. unit Simon & Schuster, said most publishers don't print their own books, so the technology won't be a threat to them. But Simon & Schuster is "very involved in electronic publishing," he added. Currently, the company publishes for all major formats available, and even sells e-books direct to consumers online. 

If 3Netics's technology works, Mr. Rothberg adds, "that would be the best thing that could possibly happen to electronic publishing, to have an even wider installed base of consumer-friendly reading devices -- that's really one of the things that's kept e-books from reaching critical mass to date." 

But the technology could prove dire for printing companies like Coral Graphics in Hicksville, N.Y. 

The company, to which Random House Inc. outsources all of its printing, has been more relaxed since e-books' abysmal failure. "All printers are concerned with the possibility that technology will take over," said Coral's president and chief executive, David Liess. 

Although electronic paper technology would have a major impact on many different industries, Mr. Liess doesn't believe it would mean the complete demise of traditional printing. Among the big booksellers, Amazon.com Inc. wouldn't comment about its plans, but spokeswoman Kristin Schaefer Mariani said the Internet retailer is always interested in anything that would improve the e-book experience for customers. A Barnes & Noble Inc. spokeswoman said said they have pulled out of the e-book business. Its Barnes&noble.com arm stopped selling e-book titles, saying they weren't user- or price-friendly. 

Document J000000020041103e0b30000j


More Like This

 Article 423 *******************    



Up Front: HALLS OF IVY

Harvard: Tops in...Engineering? 

By William C. Symonds Edited by Ira Sager 
216 words 
8 November 2004
BusinessWeek
11
Volume 3907
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

As part of Larry Summers' grand plan to reshape Harvard University for the 21th century, the president wants to create a school of engineering with the same status as its prestigious business and law schools. ``Technology is so central...[to] what's shaping our world today,'' he says (Q&A with Summers, page 73). 

That would be a big change for Harvard, where engineering has been something of an academic backwater. But at the division of engineering and applied sciences (DEAS), for now part of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences, plans are being developed to nearly double the number of full-time-equivalent faculty to 100. That would be on par with top engineering programs at Princeton University and the California Institute of Technology, though far smaller than neighbor Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

Rather than all-encompassing, a Harvard engineering school would focus on ``the cutting edge in certain disciplines,'' says DEAS Dean Venkatesh Narayanamurti. Among them: information technology, bioengineering, and nanotechnology. Summers says the new school would likely be based across the Charles River near the B-school campus: ``There is an enormous two-way fertilization there,'' he says. A plan could be ready in months. 

Document BW00000020041108e0b80001j


More Like This

 Article 424 *******************    



Deals & Deal Makers

Venture Capital Still Hot --- Paladin Is Latest to Close New Fund in Recent Days, Sparking Fund-Raising Clip 

By Ann Grimes 
456 words 
16 November 2004
The Wall Street Journal
C4
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Paladin Capital Group, a private-equity firm based in Washington, D.C., announced it has closed a second, $235 million fund to invest in homeland-security investments. 

The group, several of whose principals have backgrounds in government and security work, plans to target between 20 and 25 investments in a variety of start-ups focusing on bioterrorism, personnel weapons-detection systems and other security issues. The group already has made eight investments out of the new fund, according to Mark A. Maloney, a principal with the firm. The California Public Employees' Retirement System and union pension funds, such as the Communication Workers of America, backed the new fund, as did a number of corporate investors such as Siemens AG and Motorola Inc., the firm said. Paladin closed its first, $208 million fund in 2001. 

Paladin is the latest firm to announce the close of a new venture fund in recent days, contributing to what's become a quick clip of venture fund-raising. Last week, Amgen Inc., announced the formation of a $100 million corporate-venture fund to be called Amgen Ventures. Based in San Diego, Calif., the new fund will invest in early-stage biotech companies. Amgen's internal research and development efforts concentrate on therapies such as oncology, metabolic disorders and inflammation. The new fund will buoy young companies whose technologies complement Amgen's research and pave the way for future collaborations, the company said. 

Elsewhere, Accel Partners, of Palo Alto, Calif., says it has closed its ninth $400 million institutional fund and is in the process of closing a side fund. It follows U.S. Venture Partners, a Menlo Park, Calif., firm, that also said it closed a $600 million, ninth fund. Both venture firms will target information-technology companies. In Boston, Bain Capital announced it closed a $250 million venture fund last week that will target seed through late-stage companies in the technology, business services, health-care and consumer sectors throughout North America. 

Meanwhile, the federal government also is expanding its efforts in venture capital. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration plans to begin making venture investments next year out of a $25 million five-year appropriation from Congress. Similar to In-Q-Tel, the venture arm of the Central Intelligence Agency, the NASA fund will target small companies specializing in nanotechnology, robotics, biotechnology and computing, according to NASA's blueprint of the program. The fund will be managed out of Washington, D.C. and Northern California, NASA said. 

Venture capitalists have raised $11.2 billion through the third quarter, the National Venture Capital Association said. 

Document J000000020041116e0bg0002p


More Like This

 Article 425 *******************    



Researchers Shine Light on Ways To Retool Solar Energy Receptors 

By Frank Byrt Dow Jones Newswires 
633 words 
17 November 2004
The Wall Street Journal
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

BOSTON -- There is no hiding a house that draws energy from the sun, with the large solar panels calling attention to themselves on the roof. 

But researchers are experimenting with different materials to convert the sun's rays to electricity. Someday, a solar-powered home might be indistinguishable from any other and solar cells might find their way into new places, like laptop computers, soldiers' uniforms and army tents. 

One such effort is under way at Konarka Technologies Inc., of Lowell, Mass., where the research team has fashioned energy-conducting solar strips made of lightweight, malleable plastic that can be rolled, folded, cut into different sizes and shapes or connected in a grid. The strips can be produced in colors to blend in with whatever they are attached to. 

The material can be manufactured in large volumes with relatively inexpensive materials using a roll-to-roll method, much like that used to print newspapers. Solar panels, by comparison, are manufactured using a more costly and time-consuming batch method. 

"They have the potential for a revolutionary new solar-cell technology that could change the industry quite dramatically," said Michael Eckhart, president of the American Council on Renewable Energy, a nonprofit advocacy group. 

Konarka, named after the ancient Sun Temple of Konarka in India, uses nanotechnology to produce its solar strips. The process begins by injecting a light-absorbing dye into a titanium-dioxide paste. They then apply the paste to energy-conducting strips of plastic. Electrodes connected to the strips collect the current that is generated from the sunlight. 

Daniel McGahn, a Konarka executive vice president and chief marketing officer, said the material can produce electricity from very low levels of ambient light, even inside a building. 

But it has yet to reach the efficiency of standard solar panels. The company's current version of the strips produces energy at about an 8% efficiency level, which means it is converting 8% of the incoming light into energy. The company is aiming for 10% efficiency next year and by the third generation of the strips, the goal is efficiency of as much as 20% to 25%. That compares with efficiency of silicon-cell systems which can reach 17% under optimum conditions. 

Mr. McGahn said Konarka expects its strips to eventually become suitable for generating household energy. Right now, the material is being field-tested by the U.S. military to power or recharge the batteries of portable items such as laptops or global positioning systems and it is considering it as a potential energy supplement or replacement for batteries. 

The company will have "pilot scale" production of its strips later this year and begin scaling-up production capacity in 2005, Mr. McGahn said. 

Konarka, founded in 2001 and backed by venture-capital firms, owns patents and rights to more than 100 solar-cell and related technologies based on the use of polymers and nanotechnology. In September, it acquired intellectual property and a research team from Siemens AG's organic photovoltaic research operation. 

Konarka's scientific development team is led by Nobel Laureate Professor Alan Heeger of the University of California-Santa Barbara, while Dr. Michael Gratzel of Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne, in Switzerland, and another international leader in the solar-technology field, is an adviser. 

The use of solar panels caught on during the 1973 oil embargo when oil prices skyrocketed, and got an extra lift when the government offered a tax break for solar energy. While there have been many innovations since, the standard solar panel based on crystalline silicon wafers or thin-film semiconductors is the most popular approach. They are used in a variety of places including residential rooftops, streetlamps and solar-powered calculators. 

Document J000000020041117e0bh0000a


More Like This

 Article 426 *******************    



Cover Story: Special Report

Shaking Up Trade Theory; For decades economists have insisted that the U.S. wins from globalization. Now they're not so sure 

By Aaron Bernstein 
3,081 words 
6 December 2004
BusinessWeek
116
Volume 3911
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Ever since Americans began fretting about globalization nearly three decades ago, economists have patiently explained why, on balance, it's a boon to the U.S. Yes, some Americans lose their jobs, either to imports or because factories move to cheap-labor countries such as China or India. But the bulk of this work is labor-intensive and lower skilled and can be done more efficiently by countries that have an abundance of less-educated workers. In return, those countries buy more of our higher-value goods made by skilled workers -- for which the U.S. has a comparative advantage. The lost jobs and lower wages in the U.S., economists say, are more than offset when countries specialize like this, leading to more robust exports and lower prices on imported goods. 

Now this long-held consensus is beginning to crack. True, China is emerging as a global powerhouse, realigning many economic relationships. But in the long run a more disruptive trend may be the fast-rising tide of white-collar jobs shifting to cheap-labor countries. The fact that programming, engineering, and other high-skilled jobs are jumping to places such as China and India seems to conflict head-on with the 200-year-old doctrine of comparative advantage. With these countries now graduating more college students than the U.S. every year, economists are increasingly uncertain about just where the U.S. has an advantage anymore -- or whether the standard framework for understanding globalization still applies in the face of so-called white-collar offshoring. ``Now we've got trade patterns that challenge the common view of trade theory, which might not be so true anymore,'' says Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics (IIE), a Washington (D.C.) think tank. A leading advocate of free-trade pacts, he still thinks white-collar job shifts are good for the U.S. 

The great debate percolating among the country's top trade economists gained new prominence with a recent article by Nobel laureate Paul A. Samuelson in the Journal of Economic Perspectives (JEP). In the piece, the 89-year-old professor emeritus at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who largely invented much of modern-day economics, questions whether rising skills in China and India necessarily will benefit the U.S. 

The reaction was swift. Experts such as Columbia University trade economist Jagdish N. Bhagwati, who countered Samuelson in the next JEP issue, resist the notion that the new offshoring could lower U.S. wages or slow growth of gross domestic product. After all, these economists have spent their professional lives ridiculing such conclusions as so much protectionist nonsense. Nevertheless, they aren't yet able to reconcile what's happening on the ground with the ideas they have so passionately defended. ``This is a whole unexplored question that is very controversial, and nobody has a clue about what the numbers are,'' says Robert C. Feenstra, a prominent trade economist at the University of California at Davis. 

Global Labor Pool 

The central question Samuelson and others raise is whether unfettered trade is always still as good for the U.S. as they have long believed. Ever since British economist David Ricardo spelled out the theory of comparative advantage in the early 1800s, most economists have concluded that countries gain more than they lose when they trade with each other and specialize in what they do best. Today, however, advances in telecommunications such as broadband and the Internet have led to a new type of trade that doesn't fit neatly into the theory. Now that brainpower can zip around the world at low cost, a global labor market for skilled workers seems to be emerging for the first time -- and has the potential to upset traditional notions of national specialization. 

There are three ways this new development could disrupt the U.S. economy. If enough cheap, high-skilled workers become available around the world, competition may drive down U.S. wages for a wide swath of white-collar workers. Even economists who still see overall net gains agree that this is a potential problem. ``For the first time, high-skilled U.S. workers are going to be exposed to international competition, though it's not clear how much it will hurt their wages,'' says Bhagwati. 

A second concern is how much of the gains from trade will flow through to U.S. consumers. Until now the pain of globalization has been borne by less than a quarter of the workforce, mostly lower-skilled workers, whose wage cuts outweighed the cheaper-priced goods globalization brings. But the other three-quarters of American workers still came out ahead, since they weren't affected by foreign wage competition. If blue- and white-collar employees alike are thrown into the global labor pool, a majority of workers could end up losing more than they gain in lower prices. Then the benefits of increased trade would go primarily to employers. ``It's entirely possible that all workers will lose and shareholders will gain; you have to be concerned about that,'' says Harvard University trade economist Dani Rodrik. 

Even that wouldn't be enough to completely derail comparative-advantage theory, which holds that higher profits from trade should more than offset the lower wages. But again, for the first time, economists see another factor at play. As skill levels improve in cheap-labor countries -- for example, the new engineering class in India -- competition is coming on in the very products for which the U.S. has had a global advantage, such as software. If the new competition drives down prices too much, U.S. export earnings will suffer, and the entire U.S. economy could end up worse off. 

While experts such as Hufbauer and Bhagwati doubt it will ever come to this, the fact that they're even entertaining such concepts is an intellectual sea change on a subject long considered settled. When countries such as China can perform tasks in which the U.S. previously had a clear edge, ``comparative advantage cannot be counted on to create...net gains greater than the net losses,'' Samuelson asserts in his new paper. 

The rethinking among economists could soon spill over into the policy arena. No one is advocating new trade barriers, which could be a cure that's worse than the disease. Nonetheless, the shaken views of so many prominent economists could prove to be critical. Throughout the 1990s, Washington embraced new trade deals in large part because of the virtual unanimity among experts that trade always benefits the U.S. If they're not so sure anymore, the public consensus that was unsteady to begin with could start to unravel. 

Two tests will come next year when U.S. membership in the World Trade Organization comes up for review, as does the President's so-called fast-track authority to negotiate trade agreements. ``I'm worried that rising anxiety among higher-skilled workers will erode support for continued globalization in the U.S.,'' says Dartmouth University economics professor Matthew J. Slaughter. 

``A Right to Be Scared'' 

How large might the white-collar offshoring trend become? The more jobs that go, the greater the impact on U.S. wages. Consultant Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge, Mass., was among the first to spot the white-collar job shifts and has done the most detailed projections so far. It sees the pace of U.S. job flows abroad averaging 300,000 a year through 2015. This is probably conservative since Forrester has also found that the number of U.S. companies among the 1,000 largest that engage in some level of white-collar offshoring will rise sharply -- from 37% today to 54% by 2008. Already, some 14 million white-collar jobs involve work that can be shipped electronically and thus in theory could be moved offshore, according to a study by economists Ashok D. Bardhan and Cynthia A. Kroll at the University of California at Berkeley's Haas School of Business. 

The hit to wages could be powerful if that happens. Forrester analyst John C. McCarthy identified 242 service jobs as likely to be affected among the 500-plus major occupations tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). He ranked each by the share of jobs employers are likely to shift abroad by 2015. His conclusion: The cumulative job outflow will total 3.4 million over that period. That comes to 6% of the 57 million people who work in these 242 occupations today. 

If that's in the ballpark, U.S. white-collar wages would get whacked, says Harvard University labor economist Lawrence F. Katz. Every 1% drop in employment due to imports or factories gone abroad shaves 0.5% off pay for remaining workers, he found in a study with Harvard colleagues Richard B. Freeman and George J. Borjas. So if job losses rise to 6% of the white-collar total, these workers' pay could be depressed by 2% to 3% through 2015, figures Katz. While a few percentage points over a decade or so may not sound dire, it's roughly as much as blue-collar workers lost to globalization in recent decades. ``White-collar workers have a right to be scared,'' says Katz. 

Another way economists gauge the potential wage impact is to look at examples of how people fare when they lose a job and extrapolate for those who might get displaced by offshoring. Turns out that just 30% of laid-off workers earn the same or more after three years, according to a study of 22 years of BLS data by economics professor Lori G. Kletzer of the University of California at Santa Cruz. Only 68% even hold a job at that point, while the rest are unemployed, retired, or perhaps at home with children. On average, those reemployed earn 10% less than before, Kletzer found. ``Clearly, offshoring will be bad for U.S. wages, given what the job displacement numbers tell us,'' says Princeton University economics professor Henry S. Farber, who has written extensively about displaced workers. 

But even if the incomes of more U.S. workers fall, won't the rest of American consumers benefit from the lower-priced goods and services globalization brings? Not necessarily, some economists now believe. Most studies of trade's impact on pay, including Katz's, assume that factory-job losses simply shift the demand for labor from one kind of worker to another higher up the value chain. So higher-educated workers gained much of what the less-schooled lost. 

But if white-collar offshoring swells enough, the resulting job losses could undercut a large swath of U.S. consumers. In part, this is a question of scale. There's little doubt that globalization is likely to continue to cut into the country's 14.5 million factory hands. Add in 57 million white-collar workers suddenly facing global competition, too, and more than half the U.S. workforce of 130 million could feel the impact. Then, economists conclude, the benefits of globalization would flow mostly to companies and shareholders who profit from the cheaper labor, with little pass-through to workers and consumers. ``If a majority of Americans have lower wages from outsourcing, then capital would be the prime beneficiary, even if U.S. GDP goes up,'' says Harvard's Freeman. 

Domestic Disturbance 

Could the offshore phenomenon even dent America's overall GDP? Standard theory suggests not, but it's now another question nagging economists. Ricardo's insight that all countries come out ahead when they trade more with each other was updated in the early 1900s by two Swedish economists, Eli F. Hecksher and Bertil Olin. They showed that Ricardo's idea holds even if high-skilled countries such as the U.S. trade more with low-skilled ones such as India, with each country specializing in products in which they have a relative advantage. Thus, it's more efficient for the U.S., where about 60% of the workforce has some college education, to export products that use their skills and import low-end ones from cheap-labor countries. Conversely, India, where just a fraction of its 400 million-plus workers have gone to college, should grab the low-skilled work and leave higher-end products to the U.S. 

This theory doesn't square with today's outflows of programming and other higher-skilled jobs. ``According to the Heck-sher-Olin model, we shouldn't be sending these jobs to countries with [so few skilled workers],'' says University of California at Los Angeles trade economist Edward E. Leamer. But U.S. companies are doing just that because labor is cheaper and the Net makes it feasible to transport work done abroad back to the U.S. 

Still, most economists think the new offshoring is an overall plus. For one thing, they say, employers' cost savings should more than compensate for any wage damage. And by slashing the price of software and other goods, offshoring could power a new wave of U.S. productivity gains similar to those triggered by falling computer-hardware prices in the '90s, says a study by Hufbauer's colleague, IIE senior fellow Catherine L. Mann. 

She and others argue that countries will continue to specialize in what they do best. Sure, India or China are taking high-skilled jobs in programming, but the U.S. will still outperform them in, perhaps, drug research or nanotechnology. Instead of thinking about comparative advantage in broad strokes such as high-skilled and low-skilled, they say, it makes more sense to make finer distinctions and look at areas in which countries have industry- or occupation-specific advantages. ``There will be specialization within industries, [which will bring] a lot of demand from India for our higher skills,'' says Bhagwati. 

Other economists, however, such as Leamer and Rodrik, believe that in the new global economy, advantages from these kind of micro-level specialties will be fleeting. After all, if the U.S. is better at aerospace research, there's no reason why China couldn't quickly ramp up college grads in that area, too. It's already doing that in telecom and servers. 

Leamer and other trade experts say the resulting price competition from rising stars such as China and India could overpower any economywide gains companies get from global sourcing. They point to a famous 1968 paper by, of all people, Bhagwati, who argued that a country can be made worse off if trade lowers the price of products in which it has a comparative advantage. Bhagwati called it the ``immiserating'' effects of trade. In discussing the idea with BusinessWeek, Leamer wrote a short proof showing how a downward spiral of lower labor costs leads to lower export prices, causing immiseration. Even Bhagwati concedes that his insight could apply to the U.S. today, though he thinks the chances are slim that it will. ``Bhagwati showed back then that a country can grow and get poorer, which might be this story, though I doubt it,'' says Hufbauer. 

Indeed, it's possible that the U.S. already has suffered immiseration. Mann's study found that the offshore exodus of U.S. chip factories accounted for 10% to 30% of the decline in the prices of personal computers and memory chips in the early 1990s. These savings boosted U.S. multinationals' net exports of these products, and by 2000 the companies saw a $10 billion trade surplus in them. 

But did the U.S. as a whole come out ahead? Mann's study also shows that the country's overall trade deficit in these products plunged into negative territory in 1992 and has remained there ever since. So while large U.S. companies gained from moving chip factories abroad, the overall U.S. economy may have lost. ``This looks like immiseration to me,'' says Leamer. 

Globalization, say most trade economists, ultimately should benefit the U.S. more than it hurts. But they can't yet show that to be true. Until someone comes up with a convincing explanation for what happens when the highest-skilled jobs move offshore, battles over globalization are likely to rage even hotter. 


When White-Collar Jobs Go Abroad
 Trade economists are struggling                                               to reconcile traditional theories with emerging global realities. Three new worries:

 HIGH-SKILL WAGE SLIDE
 The development of a global market for white-collar workers could undercut the wages of highly skilled Americans for the first time

 COMPANIES TAKE ALL
 If globalization cuts pay for both white- and blue-collar workers, a majority of the U.S. workforce could lose out, leaving employers and shareholders as the prime beneficiaries

 A BLOW TO GDP GROWTH
 If cheaper white-collar labor slashes the prices of exports in which the U.S. has a comparative advantage, such as software, the economy overall could suffer
  


How Much Pain?
          
          As more U.S. employers embrace white-collar globalization...
          
          SHARE OF 1,000 LARGEST U.S. COMPANIES THAT SAY THEY PLAN TO:
                                         2003        2008
 Do virtually no white-collar offshoring 63%         46%
 Offshore to some degree                 33          44
 Offshore any white-collar work possible 4           10

 Data: Forrester Research Inc.


 ...more nonfactory jobs will move abroad

                                         2002        SHARE MOVING OFFSHORE BY**
                                         employment* 2004    2008   2015

 Computer                                3 million   5%      9%     20%
 Legal                                   1           1       3      9
 Business                                5           1       3      8
 Architecture                            2           1       2      8
 Office                                  23          1       3      7
 Life sciences                           1           0       1      4
 Management                              7           0       1      4
 Art, Design                             2           0       1      2
 Sales                                   13          0       0      2
 Total                                   57 million  1%, or  2%, or 6%, or 3.4 million jobs
                                         jobs        546,000 1.2 million
                                         jobs        jobs
Data: Forrester Research Inc.
          ** estimates
          
          
          ...biting into American wages
          
          U.S. JOB DISPLACEMENT* FROM 1979 TO 2001
          
          68% of job-losers found new work within three years...
          
          ...but their average wage declined 10%
          
          44% of those re-employed earned less at their new job...
          
          ...and their average wage dropped 49%
          
          * Excludes workers who quit or were fired for performance reasons
          
          Data: Lori Kletzer, University of California at Santa Cruz
  

photograph | Photograph: BANGALORE: Tech-services outsourcing is on the rise PHOTOGRAPH BY GAUTAM SINGH/AP/WIDE WORLD | photograph | Photograph: TECH SUPPORT: How many white-collar jobs will head overseas? PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY STEAGALL/AP PHOTO 


Document BW00000020041202e0c60002j


More Like This

 Article 427 *******************    


Features/INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT & TECHNOLOGY

Weaving the Future From spill-resistant khakis to lifesaving bandages, new technology is bolstering the U.S. textile industry. 

PHILIP SIEKMAN 
3,004 words 
13 December 2004
Fortune
U.S. Edition
250[B]
English
Copyright (c) 2004 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. 

On Jan. 1, a decade-old international agreement that allows the U.S. to limit foreign textile imports will expire. From the lamentations of the National Council of Textile Organizations, a protectionist lobbying group, you might conclude that an already comatose U.S. textile industry is about to flat-line. Not so. Textile manufacturers are alive and bubbling with new ideas ranging from revolutionary bandages that are saving lives in Iraq to tennis shirts that won't stink a week after being stuffed unwashed in a locker. 

It's true that many U.S. garment plants have shut down or moved abroad in recent years. The fabric, yarn, and fiber mills that supplied those plants have also faced layoffs and closings (see box). But apparel accounts for one-third, at most, of the gross national textile product, according to Blanton Godfrey, dean of the Textile College at North Carolina State University. The bulk of U.S. textile production is in household and industrial items: everything from diapers, to carpeting, to crop covers, to highway underlining, to the cabin air filter in your Honda Accord. 

In fact, any product made with natural or synthetic fibers is a textile. By that definition, many golf clubs and boat hulls are also textile products. Fibers will account for about half the weight of Boeing's upcoming 7E7 airliner. Most of this stuff is still made in the U.S., and most of the manufacturers are doing just fine, supporting Godfrey's claim that the textile industry is second only to motor vehicles in its contribution to U.S. GDP. 

What's going on is a 21st-century demonstration of the hoary economic principle of comparative advantage. As labor-intensive plants move to low-wage countries, surviving manufacturers tend to substitute technology for labor. While there are fewer jobs per factory, the remaining workers are highly skilled and better paid. In the American South, some of these new factories are foreign- owned car and truck assembly lines and the factories that feed them. But new and different textile mills have also been opening throughout the region. Running 24 hours a day, seven days a week, fabric lines costing as much as $100 million each and manned by as few as five people now turn out more material in one hour than 500 conventional looms can weave in four. Many of them spew out more than 500,000 square meters of material on an eight-hour shift. One year's production is enough to wrap a 20-foot-wide ribbon around the globe north to south plus once around the equator, with enough left over for a bow. 

Unless you aren't toilet-trained, most of these mills don't make fabrics you can wear. They're turning out so-called nonwoven textiles for which major uses, besides diapers, include carpet backing and medical fabrics such as gowns, scrubs, and tray covers. There are probably some 50 pounds of nonwoven fabric in your car, including the carpet backing and the sound deadener under the hood. 

The U.S. leads the world in nonwoven fabric production. INDA, the industry's trade group, calculates that this year the U.S. will make 1.2 million tons of nonwovens, worth nearly $5 billion. That's a third of global output. The total includes about $1 billion in exports and gets multiplied many times when converted from bulk fabric to finished products. Even as garment jobs leave the country, foreign companies are creating nonwoven jobs in the U.S. One of the four biggest U.S. producers is German-owned, and another is British-owned. More foreigners are piling in. In North Carolina, where there are already 30 nonwoven factories, a Swiss, a Japanese, and an Israeli company are each opening plants. 

While nonwoven manufacturers set output records, innovation has been sweeping through the "traditional" woven-fabric sector. Already available in your local mall's Gap: khakis that shed spills when you get sloppy with your beer. Now arriving in hospitals: sheets that kill germs. And due to hit the market soon: an undershirt that alerts the fire chief if one of his team in the fire zone is in trouble. 

Given that the textile industry is widely seen as moribund, it's startling to observe the ferment in university textile labs. An exciting strain of academic research traces from the discovery of carbon nanotubes, submicron-dimensioned cylinders formed by pure carbon atoms. Scientists are combining nanotubes with other synthetics to create fibers as strong as steel. 

In Cary, N.C., 3TEX has developed a line of body and vehicle armor woven from Kevlar and regular carbon fibers. 3TEX was founded in 1996 by Mansour Mohamed, a North Carolina State University researcher who became the company's chief scientific officer. He invented a method of weaving in three dimensions by adding a vertical yarn to the horizontal warp-weft pattern. His original machine is still used for some fabrics, but most current production is on standard weaving looms that have been modified to weave T shapes as well as material up to one inch thick. 

At first 3TEX generated more publicity (in FORTUNE and elsewhere) than sales. But the company's small plant in Rutherfordton, N.C., is now busy weaving thick fiberglass fabric for the marine industry. Instead of applying several layers of fiberglass and resin, boat builders can form hulls using one thick layer of 3TEX fabric. The technique saves labor and produces a lighter structure that can't delaminate. 

Another discovery, polymers that can conduct electricity, has sparked research into baby clothes and hospital gowns that warn Mom or the nurses' station when something is amiss. Woven fabric is a tempting medium for electronics engineers because the regular intersection of vertical and horizontal fibers allows precise positioning of components and sensors. Yet those junctions are also an engineer's nightmare. "You have to create disconnects so you don't end up sending signals everywhere," says Tushar Ghosh, a professor at North Carolina State's Textile College. 

Electronic textile developers also face the challenge of keeping sensors in place near the skin. Sensatex, a Bethesda, Md., startup, has successfully tested an interactive SmartShirt to be worn underneath a firefighter's clothing. Sensors in the shirt track movement, heart rate, respiration, and ambient temperature. The weight of the oxygen tank on the firefighter's back helps keep the sensors properly positioned while they collect data that are broadcast to a computer display outside the fire zone. 

The Sensatex shirt is based on Sundaresan Jayaraman's research at Georgia Tech. Jayaraman has since moved on to interactive textiles that respond to body temperature. The fabric can open its weave to cool you down, tighten the weave to provide more insulation, or even heat up (from an electrical power source) if that's what it takes to keep you cozy. Jayaraman is also working on fabric that not only senses when something is wrong but also does something about it. One application would be a shirt that monitors a diabetic's bloodstream and administers insulin when necessary. 

In Greensboro, N.C., Burlington Industries is working on an odor- killing fabric treatment that could let hotels convert rooms from smoking to nonsmoking without replacing the drapes and bedspread. Burlington is now trying to manufacture mattress ticking compliant with a California regulation, going into effect on Jan. 1, that imposes tough fire-retardant and self-extinguishing standards. The company has one solution: woven fabric bonded to a fire-resisting nonwoven that it buys from others. That's fine for the side panels, but the feel is probably not soft enough for mattress tops. Burlington researchers are working on that problem. 

Burlington also provided spill-resistant upholstery fabric for seats in the Houston Rockets' stadium. The upholstery is a sandwich of water-repellent cloth backed by a moisture-blocking nonwoven fabric. When Yao Ming brings the crowd to its feet, the cloth shrugs off the spilled drinks thanks to a process supplied by a sister company called Nano-Tex. A Taiwan-born chemical engineer named David Soane founded Nano-Tex after he developed a way to graft minute hydrophobic "whiskers" onto cotton molecules. The whiskers make cotton or blended fabric nonabsorbent without significantly changing its other properties. Burlington backed Soane and ended up with 51% of Nano-Tex. Both companies are now controlled by Wilbur Ross Jr., the billionaire financier who spent $614 million this year to bail Burlington out of bankruptcy and make it the core of his International Textile Group. 

Nano-Tex now sells two other fabric treatments in addition to spill resistance, one that promotes moisture wicking and one that makes polyester feel something like cotton. The company provides the technology and chemicals for the fabric- altering brew to more than 50 mills around the world in addition to Burlington's own. Nano-Tex's major end users are apparel companies such as L.L. Bean, Perry Ellis, and Gap. But be careful. Spill red wine on your slacks, and it will bead up and roll off onto the hostess's new carpet. 

Hospital patients are likely to see their infection risk decline thanks to Medline Industries, a Mundelein, Ill., medical-supply company with $1.8 billion in annual sales. It is introducing hospital linens that kill germs with chlorine using a process devised by Gang Sun, a polymer chemist at the University of California's Davis campus. Although chlorine-bleached sheets are germ-free when they come out of the hospital laundry, the chlorine quickly dissipates. Sun grafted a chemical stabilizer onto cotton fibers. When the treated fabric is laundered, chlorine bleach in the wash water locks onto the stabilizer. Each time the sheet is washed, its chlorine content is refreshed. 

Medline passed the technique to its sheet suppliers in China and Pakistan and says the treatment remains effective through 70 washes. Now Sun and his research associate, Louise Ko, are developing clothes for agricultural workers that will neutralize pesticides. 

Last year, after the Pentagon got involved, a small Portland, Ore., company called HemCon received FDA approval for a revolutionary new bandage just 48 hours after filing its application. Developed by Dr. Kenton Gregory, the bandage controls severe hemorrhaging and seals wounds. How? The wound side of the bandage is a layer of freeze-dried chitosan extracted from shrimp shells. The bandage sticks to the wound because chitosan is a bio- adhesive, particularly in the presence of blood. HemCon has already shipped nearly 40,000 bandages to the U.S. military, with 70,000 more on the way. 

Nowhere in the textile industry is more capital being deployed on new ways to make new fabrics than in nonwovens. You make nonwoven fabric by spreading out a jumble of fibers, bonding them together, and rolling up the result. The technology is nothing if not flexible. You can start with a single type of fiber or a mix of natural and synthetic materials. (You could throw in granola or almost any other substance if you were so inclined.) Some plants use staple fibers: short lengths of material made elsewhere. In others, polymer pellets are melted into fibers and then spewed out across the width of a fast-moving belt. One variation, spunbond, lays down a continuous row of filaments. Another, meltbond, sprays out a high- velocity mist of polymers. 

The fibers are then locked together by penetrating the mass with mechanical needles (relatively slow) or firing jets of water through it (very fast). And there are many ways to bond the material: pressure, heat, resins, or some combination. By varying all these techniques, manufacturers can alter thickness, flexibility, feel, strength, stretchability, porosity, and so on. 

On one line in Simpsonville, S.C., BBA Fiberweb makes medical- garment fabric by laying down spunbond fiber, follows that with three layers of meltbond, and tops off with another spunbond layer. DuPont recently spent $130 million revamping part of an old plant outside Nashville to make new nonwoven fabrics. The first offering is Suprel, a polyester-polyethylene blend used to fashion more comfortable and protective medical scrubs. DuPont's main competitor in this market, the German manufacturer Freudenberg Nonwovens, is setting up a production line in one of its three plants in Durham, N.C. The new line will produce a three-dimensional fabric called Novolon. Possible uses: concrete reinforcement, underlining a cast so that air circulates next to the skin, and padding the shoulder of a shooting jacket. 

Nonwoven plants are under constant pressure to make all their fabrics more quickly and cheaply. "This is a capital- intensive industry where every product quickly becomes a commodity," says Mike Ward, site manager for British-owned BBA Fiberweb's multiplant site in Simpsonville. "In the past, you depreciated a loom over 20 years. Now you have to replace equipment every few years." 

Disposable diapers are one of the biggest, most competitive niches in the nonwoven industry. Ward's facility, for example, supplies Procter & Gamble. Around the world, P&G buys more than ten billion square meters of nonwoven fabric each year for products that include Tampax and sanitary wipes as well as Luvs and Pampers, its two brands of disposable diapers. 

Diapers are important for Wal-Mart and other giant retailers because they build store traffic. The retailers constantly pressure P&G and other manufacturers to reduce diaper prices. P&G passes that pressure on to Ward and his competitors; they must cut costs by producing thinner material ever more quickly without sacrificing quality. P&G's chief competitor, Kimberly-Clark, manufactures most of its own nonwoven fabric. But K-C is rethinking its vertical integration strategy, industry gossips say. That's because the company is losing market share to P&G, which exploits its buying power to drive down nonwoven prices. 

A clue that you might soon be wearing garments that weren't woven or knitted is provided by a new Freudenberg fabric called Evolon. The manufacturing process starts with a composite fiber whose cross- section looks like pie cut ready to serve: Tranches of polyester are separated by nylon segments that resemble knife cuts. On the production line, jets of water blow the filament apart into microfibers. The resulting fabric is light and soft, drapes like conventional garment textiles, and can be designed to either repel or absorb water. Freudenberg CEO Stephan Tanda foresees uses in industry, shoes, and luggage as well as in athletic and casual apparel. 

Evolon is just the beginning. The major nonwoven manufacturers all support the Nonwovens Cooperative Research Center at North Carolina State University in Raleigh. The center operates two pilot plants, one processing staple fiber and the other pellets. Researchers produce limited runs of experimental fabrics for textile industry members. As a security precaution, all visitors are locked out when the lines are running. Asked what's going on inside the production facility, research director Behnam Pourdeyhim simply smiles. "Come back in a year," he says. "Apparel is going to get interesting." 

FEEDBACK fortunemail_letters@fortunemail.com. Stories from the Industrial Management & Technology section can be found at fortune.com/imt. Executives in manufacturing and research and others eligible to receive FORTUNE's Industrial Edition may subscribe by calling 888-394-5472. 

IS SOUTHERN EMPLOYMENT REALLY TANKING? 

Although garment makers are suffering, aggregate job statistics tell a different story. 

As the import quota regime draws to a close, complaints about the loss of U.S. textile jobs are heard across the land, not to mention in the halls of Congress. It's true that garment makers and their suppliers have suffered. In the decade after 1992, shipments by U.S. apparel plants dropped from $97.6 billion a year to $45.5 billion. Employment in garment plants and the fabric mills that supply them declined from 1,594,000 workers to 618,000. That happened partly because of improved productivity in the mills, but mostly because of cheap imported garments. 

But take a closer look at the confederacy of traditional textile states. The unemployment rate in Alabama, North Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Virginia is lower today than it was at the end of 1992. The only exception is South Carolina, where unemployment is no worse than it was in 1993. Even in that state, many workers are earning good pay at BMW, Bosch, and Michelin plants, to name just a few foreign companies that have created jobs there. At least in gross terms, the economy is absorbing textile job losses. 

Which is not to say nobody's hurting. The new jobs require up-to- date skills. Many unemployed textile workers, meanwhile, have 20- year-old diplomas from weak high schools. These people are the victims of shortsighted textile companies that chose protection over adjustment to the global economy--and of the federal and local officials who abetted them. 

A bandage made from dried shrimp shells can stanch bleeding and seal off combat wounds. 

In the capital-intensive nonwovens industry, every product quickly becomes a commodity. 

P&G buys more than ten billion square meters of nonwoven fabric worldwide each year. 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAXTON Polypropylene fibers for hospital scrubs at a BBA Fiberweb plant in Simpsonville, S.C. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAXTON Kevlar strands for body and vehicle armor feed this loom at the 3TEX plant in Rutherfordton, N.C. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAXTON Water-absorption testing at a Nano-Tex lab in Burlington, N.C. The pink ring encircles spill-resistant fabric. COLOR PHOTO: DIAGRAM BY 5W INFOGRAPHIC / SOURCE: SENSATEX THE SMART SHIRT Interactive fabric helps fire chiefs monitor their crews. Below right: Virginia firefighters field-test the Sensatex shirt. COLOR PHOTO COLOR PHOTO: NEIL REDMOND--THE NEW YORK TIMES A laid- off worker outside the shuttered Pillowtex plant in Kannapolis, N.C. 


Document FORTU00020041129e0cd00010


More Like This

 Article 428 *******************    



Science & Technology: Printing

Xerox Is Dreaming In Color; Will a big bet on color printing boost its share in this fast-growing market? 

By Nanette Byrnes in Rochester, N.Y. 
1,268 words 
13 December 2004
BusinessWeek
70
Volume 3912
English
(c) 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

At first blush, the sales pitch left graphic designers at PrintManagement skeptical. Xerox Corp. was trying to sell them on a new digital copier called iGen3 that would take over some of the work the Cincinnati printer traditionally sent to offset machines. The color would be comparable, Xerox claimed in the presentation last March. And it would be economical for runs of fewer than 2,000 pages -- a proposition no high-volume offset-printing system could match. 

These two claims intrigued the designers, who print millions of color pages every year. ``We have clients that manufacture equipment for the food industry,'' says Brian Frank, PrintManagement LLC's co-owner and executive vice-president. In their product brochures, ``a piece of chicken has got to make your mouth water.'' So Frank sent a host of jobs to Xerox' Rochester (N.Y.) compound, and when they came back, the designers put them next to the same prints run on an offset machine. Within a couple of weeks, PrintManagement signed a five-year lease on an iGen3 for upwards of $750,000. 

Xerox needs to impress a lot more execs like Frank. The copier giant targeted the color market years ago, in part to escape price wars in low-end systems. It now enjoys a dominant 36% market share in high-end color copiers, where leases run $150,000 and up. But sanctuary in this niche could prove transitory: Rival Canon Inc. is No. 1 in mass-market copiers that handle both color and black and white. Ricoh, Toshiba, and Konica Minolta are competitive, too. And Hewlett-Packard Co. hopes to move its corporate clients to multipurpose office machines with brilliant color palettes. ``Color's the name of the game these days,'' says Peter A. Crean, a veteran Xerox scientist. 

The stampede into color office gear is driven in part by the explosion of radiant Web pages, graphics-rich PowerPoints, and relentless blizzards of brochure marketing. And because color products require more supplies, profits in this segment are lush. Xerox' profits in the color copier market -- mostly on toners and other gear -- are three to five times higher than in the black-and-white market. 

ALL IN THE MIND 

The growth curves are also alluring. While black-and-white copier sales are basically flat, color office machines that copy, scan, and fax are expected to swell from a $5.8 billion market in 2003 to $7 billion this year, according to Lyra Research Inc. in Newton, Mass. Xerox gets 24% of revenue from color sales -- but that's not good enough, executives say. To increase their share, the company is spending two-thirds of its $800 million annual research and development budget on color-related projects. 

For all the intense research at Xerox and elsewhere, the physics of color is fairly elementary. Virtually all printed colors can be produced by combining four shades: black, cyan, magenta, and yellow. But the science of color is as much about human perception as it is about wavelengths of light -- and matching the color on a piece of paper with what's on a computer screen is no mean feat. Xerox dubs this challenge ``true color'' and it is sparing no science or engineering resources to master it. 

Calibrating printed colors with their electronic counterparts is difficult because the colors on a monitor are literally luminous: You change them by adding light. On a page, in contrast, when you want to refine the palette, you mostly end up applying the color black to subtract light. Not surprisingly, the universe of colors you can see on a computer or TV screen is much larger than what you can ever get on a page. 

So researchers have figured out how to trick the eye into believing that the two sets of colors match. For one thing, the perception of a particular hue is defined by colors adjacent to it. The same patch of yellow surrounded by a light blue background seems to grow brighter as you darken the blue that borders it. By deftly layering colors next to one another, printed images can emulate electronic ones. 

But all this effort is wasted if the colors placed on the paper aren't ``true.'' Here, nanotechnology comes into play. Traditionally, the toner used in photocopiers was ground up and sifted to get the most uniform particles. Today, after 11 years of development, toner in several of Xerox's high-end office color-copying machines -- and likely soon the iGen3 -- is made chemically, built up from molecules that measure just one four-hundredth the width of a human hair. This technique has improved color reliability. And because the particles are a uniform size, copiers and printers handle them efficiently, with little waste. 

Rivals and some outside experts question how effective Xerox' research spending will be. Sam Yoshida, a corporate systems director at Canon USA Inc., points out that Canon can leverage its color research across a variety of digital products, including cameras, video, and copiers. That gives the company more bang for its research buck, he contends. And Michael Zeis, president of document specialist Blackstone Research Associates, expresses doubts about the potential market for products such as iGen3, which is designed for customized tasks. Because it's digital, the machine might run, for example, a few thousand high-gloss fliers for a resort, customized to the interests of many different groups of clients. But there is one big problem, says Zeis: Many companies lack sufficient information about their customers to really tailor their marketing in such a detailed way. 

Xerox says its color strategy is far more than just neat science. Ursula M. Burns, president of business group operations, the company's $12 billion copier division, says return on R&D investment has been strong and that color innovations hatched originally for one machine migrate up and down Xerox' 30-product color line. 

Solid ink is a prime example. The technology, which Xerox acquired five years ago, is an ink formed into roughly 2-inch-square pieces that are melted to make an image, creating deeper, truer colors on the page. At Behr Paint kiosks, located in 1,700 Home Depot stores, it's a Xerox solid ink printer that spits out the sample. 

Today the ink is used in printers, but Xerox has been working on a way to get it into digital machines that copy, fax, and print -- and plans to launch such a machine in the first half of 2005. Customers like the vivid colors, but just as important to Xerox is the lower cost base: Solid-ink systems have fewer disposable parts, and maintaining them costs 40% less than traditional laser systems. 

For a company built on a leasing model, maintenance savings are a huge boon. ``Solid ink is magic,'' says Burns. Well, make that science. 


 Building Better Toners

 THE OLD WAY...
 The conventional toner used in photocopiers is ground up and sifted to get tiny particles that are roughly uniform in size and shape. Even after decades of evolution this mechanical process cannot produce perfectly matching particles.

 THE NEW WAY...
 Today, after 11 years of development, toner in several of Xerox' high-end machines is engineered and manufactured chemically, from the molecules up. Their uniform size has improved color reliability and allowed the copiers to run more efficiently.

  

photograph | Photograph: VIBRANT PLAN Burns says the investment is paying off PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL GREENLAR 


Document BW00000020041209e0cd0002g


More Like This

 Article 429 *******************    



Global View

Salute to 2004's Technical Miracle Workers 

By George Melloan 
1,003 words 
28 December 2004
The Wall Street Journal
A11
English
(Copyright (c) 2004, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Americans have had no lack of dramatic news this year. The Boston Red Sox finally broke the 86-year-old "curse of the Babe" and won a World Series. Martha Stewart went voluntarily to the slammer for five months rather than wait for the scales of justice to possibly tip her way. Afghans proved they deserved liberation by holding a free election and Americans liberated themselves from months of campaign boredom by the same means. 

But events that don't make headline news often are more important than those that do. That quiet backdrop is explored by Sir Harold Evans, a British journalist, in "They Made America: From the Steam Engine to the Search Engine -- Two Centuries of Innovation," (Little Brown & Co.) In an interview in the winter issue of "Invention & Technology" magazine, he is quoted as saying that America became economically strong through the "adaptive genius of innovators and inventors." 

The lengthy report of an ambitious investigation of the "Culture, Leadership and Organization" of 62 societies, called the Globe project, finds that Americans get one of the best marks on what the study calls "uncertainty avoidance." Business leaders and their organizations rely less than those of most other cultures on "formalized policies, procedures and rules and tend to be less calculating when taking risks," according to Wharton management professor Robert J. House, who initiated the study. The score suggests a nation of risk-takers and innovators who adapt readily to change. 

Globe doesn't draw any broad conclusions from its sociological study but the research surely suggests that the American success story can be related to the American success in developing a free and liberal economic order. There is not much holding anyone with a good idea back, neither a stratified class structure, nor an excess of regulations designed to protect an existing order, nor a lack of access to as much learning as the individual can master. 

It is this dynamic mobility that drives the American economy, creating new products every year that consumers didn't know they needed before they were invented but now find indispensable. How many people did you see walking around with cell phones a decade ago? 

The freeing up of the telecom industry since the Jan. 8, 1982, break-up of AT&T has been messy and tangled in regulatory and courtroom red tape. But despite all this, new technologies have emerged and are now bringing dramatic change in the ways people communicate. Moving into place now is Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP), which will give families with broadband Internet connections a cheap way to talk with friends and relatives throughout the world. Then there are the new wireless technologies like Wi-Fi and Wi-Max that link up hand-held devices to the Internet. 

Information technology grows apace. Google is broadening search capabilities into books, peer-reviewed academic papers, abstracts and other sources that will enable scholars to easily and quickly search the current literature of their fields. IBM seeks to create a world-wide grid using available time on 10 million private computers that would reduce the time required for large computational projects. These two efforts, if they succeed, will broaden the scope and depth of scientific inquiry. 

With these kinds of new tools, and others, research and development laboratories in corporations, academia and government will unlock further new secrets. Nanotechnology, the manipulation of individual atoms and molecules, is in its infancy but already producing ways to alter industrial coatings and other materials to make them more versatile and useful. Microbiology, a related field, is producing new discoveries in medicine and agriculture. The U.S. Patent Office last year issued 189,597 patents, not only to research giants but to individuals puttering around in their garages to come up with a better screwdriver, or, yes, mousetrap. 

Necessity may be the mother of invention, but private gain is the father. Inventors want to get rich, and many do. That's why the private sector drives the technology game. What better example than Burt Rutan, who may have opened the age of private space travel this year by developing SpaceShipOne, a two-passenger vehicle that won the $10 million X Prize with two consecutive trips to 62.5 miles (100 kilometers) above the earth's surface. Mr. Rutan told "Wired" magazine that with his simple and relatively inexpensive craft, he hopes some day to approach the $100,000 ticket price that a NASA-funded study has estimated would attract a million people to space flight. 

Mr. Rutan, who proved himself with the nonstop around-the-world flight of his Voyager aircraft in 1986, got his spaceship funding from Microsoft billionaire Paul Allen. Many other inventors find it harder to scare up venture capital. A great many of these risk-takers took a cold shower when the dot-com boom collapsed in 2001, but there are signs that they are venturing out of their caves again. They come back wiser for the experience, looking for projects that are more than just a glimmer in an innovator's eye. 

The one wild card is, as usual, laws and regulations. Responding to public resentment of fat executive compensation packages, Congress and the Financial Accounting Standards Board have been crunching possible rules to make it mandatory for companies to treat stock options as an expense. That has some merit in an academic sense, but stock options are an important way for small start-up companies with a promising product to attract high-quality talent to give them the skills needed for further marketing and development. 

Then, of course, there are the politically ambitious prosecutors hoping to bag the next Martha Stewart guilty of successful innovation. An even more important threat are the parasitic plaintiff lawyers who, if they aren't restrained, have a good chance of shutting down medical research. But for the moment, it's a good time to celebrate the fruits of invention. 

Document J000000020041228e0cs0000w


More Like This

 Article 430 *******************    



Technology Journal

IBM Expands Technology R&D 

By Charles Forelle 
365 words 
6 January 2005
The Wall Street Journal
A13
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

International Business Machines Corp. is expanding research and development at its semiconductor-fabrication plant in East Fishkill, N.Y. 

The move, announced in New York Gov. George E. Pataki's State of the State address yesterday, signals a willingness by Big Blue to remain in a costly business that has seen losses. IBM says it expects its semiconductor-manufacturing business to improve this year. 

Gov. Pataki's office said IBM and several other high-tech vendors had committed to spend $1.9 billion in East Fishkill on a new facility as well as new research efforts. IBM confirmed that figure, but noted that it includes previously announced commitments, such as a $325 million investment by Sony Corp., its partner in a next-generation video-game chip. IBM wouldn't break out how much it or its partners in the deal are spending. The commitment runs through 2008. 

"These investments represent our commitment to lead in high-value systems and semiconductor technology," an IBM spokesman said. 

IBM makes chips for its own systems, as well as for other vendors. That latter business has been troubled, though IBM says the benefits it reaps in its own systems business outweigh the losses. 

The governor also said IBM and other equipment makers were expected to spend $450 million on nanotechnology research facilities at the University at Albany, though that deal hasn't been completed. 

The new addition to the East Fishkill plant will mostly house research and development efforts aimed at producing next-generation chips with ever-tinier circuits. As the circuits shrink to accommodate more processing power, building the chips requires more expensive equipment and more tightly controlled processes. 

Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, says he expects the new investment won't substantially expand IBM's chip-producing capacity, but will instead beef up its technology. 

By having its own fabrication facilities, IBM is alone among major computer-systems designers, most of whom delegate chip production to outside foundries. It faced criticism from investors and analysts over the opening of the East Fishkill plant, which cost $3 billion and has suffered from production kinks. 

Document J000000020050106e1160000i


More Like This

 Article 431 *******************    



Silicon Valley Saga: A Tech Guru Flips To the Money Side 

By Ann Grimes 
706 words 
18 January 2005
The Wall Street Journal
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

ONE OF SILICON VALLEY'S best-known technology gurus has teamed up with one of its best-known venture-capital firms. 

Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers plans to announce today that Bill Joy, the programmer who co-founded Sun Microsystems Inc., joined the firm this month as a venture partner. 

Mr. Joy, 50 years old, resigned in 2003 as Sun's chief scientist, citing a desire to pursue new challenges -- and setting off speculation about whether he would join or start another technology company. Instead, he has become a venture capitalist at the firm that was one of Sun's original financial backers. 

John Doerr, a Kleiner partner and longtime Sun director, said the Menlo Park, Calif., venture firm lured Mr. Joy because, "increasingly, we as a firm want to be able to help entrepreneurs exploit the accelerating pace of innovation. You don't want to rely on consultants to do it. . . . Bill is someone who is very current in all fields and, more important, he's an entrepreneur." 

While a student at the University of California, Mr. Joy helped develop an influential strain of the Unix operating system that became a technical foundation of Sun and other companies and was a precursor of the "open-source" programming methodology used for Linux and other popular programs. In 1982, he co-founded Sun with three colleagues including Vinod Khosla, now a top Kleiner partner. While at Sun, Mr. Joy worked on software that included Java, the computer company's popular programming technology, as well as its Sparc microprocessor chips. 

He has made his home since 1991 in Aspen, Colo., where he helped develop a pioneering city-wide network using the wireless technology called WiFi. 

Mr. Joy will be the seventh partner in the firm's current fund, which also has six managing partners. He has been an active venture investor since the late 1990s and described his latest step as a "natural" extension of what he has been doing. 

"I saw more and more opportunities coming my way that were interesting and of sufficient scale that they needed a larger, more organized, heavier-hitting VC partnership to get behind them," Mr. Joy said. He said he had talked with Mr. Doerr, a Sun director, about "doing something together for a number of years." 

While Sun's shares are about 90% off the peak they hit in 2000, Mr. Joy left the company a wealthy man. He immersed himself in public-policy projects and a number of investments in start-up companies, worked on a book (now shelved) and learned more about new kinds of energy technologies, an area that he believes is ripe for venture investing. He plans to help the partnership evaluate start-ups pushing ahead with innovative chips, open-source software and "getting the Internet on top of other things than the desktop." 

He also is interested in exploring new ways to solve genetic-decoding and environmental problems using large-scale supercomputing, including finding ways to profitably use new materials to solve age-old problems like oil dependency. 

Mr. Joy attracted national attention four years ago when he wrote a manifesto of sorts in Wired magazine spelling out the unforeseen dangers of technology, especially in biotechnology, nanotechnology and robotics. Mr. Joy said that work helped shaped his view on technology investing. 

Mr. Joy is a net addition to Kleiner's partnership, which it recently restructured. While Kleiner was a backer of Internet search engine Google Inc., the venture-capital firm had its share of failed investments during the Internet-investing boom. 

The firm began retooling its management team more than a year ago as it raised its 11th $400 million fund. 

Most recently, Kleiner has put money behind XenSource Inc., a Palo Alto, Calif., start-up that will provide services and support for a new kind of open-source software. Other recent investments include Scintera Networks Inc., a San Jose, Calif., start-up that develops high-speed signal-processing technology, and Fortify Software Inc., a Palo Alto start-up that is developing new ways to tackle computer viruses and other security flaws. Mr. Joy personally invested in that company last spring. 

Document J000000020050118e11i0003k


More Like This

 Article 432 *******************    



REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)

Of Things Great and Small 

414 words 
19 January 2005
The Wall Street Journal
A12
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

The past week has seen the advent of two technological marvels -- one exceedingly large, the other remarkably tiny. Both are the product of the rapid technological advances of the last couple of decades, but each employs those advances to different ends. 

The Airbus A380, unveiled this week, will be the largest passenger airliner ever put into service when it starts commercial flights next year. It has a wingspan almost as wide as a football field is long and a tailfin seven stories high. Fully packed with economy-class passengers, it is capable of carrying 800 people, although most configurations will probably seat fewer than 600. 

The pieces of the fuselage, constructed near Hamburg, Germany for final assembly in Toulouse, France, are so large that they must be transported to France by water on purpose-made boats. Even the price is huge -- the catalog price is $260 million a pop. All of this is made possible by the extensive use of high-tech composites to lend strength to the construction while keeping the weight down. 

At the other end of the spectrum, we have Apple's diminutive ipod Shuffle, a music-playing device the size of a pack of chewing gum and weighing less than an ounce. It holds up to 16 hours worth of music -- that's about 20 LPs for those who remember when music was measured in RPMs instead of megabits per second -- and costs as little as $99. 

There was a time when big was impressive and small was cute; the 20th century was the age of the skyscraper, the Titanic and finally the jumbo jet. These days, small competes for our admiration with the grandiose. Nanotechnology -- the ability to manipulate the properties of objects as small as atoms -- seems poised to become the driving force of technological change in the decades ahead. It may be that the ipod Shuffle pictured here will be chuckled at by the generations to come because of its unwieldy size and inadequate capacity in the same way that today's teenagers chuckle at their parents' LP collections. 

Where does the super jumbo fit here? It is in many ways the product of the same trends -- without computerized electronic controls and those high-tech materials, it would never fly. But depending upon market response, Airbus may find it is pressing the size limits for passenger aircraft. As far as modern technology is concerned, small seems more beautiful. 

Document J000000020050119e11j0003q


More Like This

 Article 433 *******************    



Huddled Up With LISA 

By Michio Kaku 
576 words 
20 January 2005
The Wall Street Journal
A14
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

One of the hottest topics being debated in D.C. is an exit strategy from Iraq. In the Pentagon, generals are asking when conditions will be cool enough to gradually pull out troops. But no matter how difficult this may be, physicists are struggling with an even greater exit strategy, not because the universe is hot, but because it is cooling down too rapidly. 

The latest data from space satellites are unmistakable: The universe will eventually die in a Big Freeze. Not only is the universe expanding, it is also careening out of control in a runaway mode. A mysterious "dark energy" is pushing galaxies apart. Some day, when looking heavenward, we'll be quite lonely, with other galaxies too far to be observed. Worse, it will be deathly cold. As the universe accelerates, temperatures will plunge throughout the universe. Billions to trillions of years from now, the stars will have exhausted their nuclear fuel, the oceans will freeze, the sky will become totally dark, and the universe will consist of dead neutron stars, black holes, and nuclear debris. Intelligent life will be huddled next to the dying embers of fading black holes, like the homeless next to small bonfires. 

Is all intelligent life doomed to die when the universe itself perishes? It seems as if the iron laws of physics have issued a death warrant. But there's still one possible exit strategy: to leave the universe itself. There's a buzz in physics today over the existence of parallel universes, perhaps hovering above us or floating in a higher dimension. Millions are currently being spent at labs world-wide to detect faint signals from a higher dimension. According to the latest theory, our universe, like a soap bubble, may coexist in an infinite ocean of other bubble-universes floating in hyperspace, which physicists call the "multiverse" or "megaverse." In 2012, a new space probe, LISA (Laser Interferometer Space Antenna) will be launched which may be able to prove or disprove these conjectures. 

This is the problem facing physicists: Do the laws of physics allow for the creation of "wormholes" connecting our universe to a younger, more hospitable universe? Like Alice's Looking Glass, can a gateway be built to connect our universe with another? In the distant future, any civilization facing the inevitable death of the universe will embark upon a monumental Manhattan Project, to amass batteries of colossal laser cannons and atom smashers, perhaps the size of entire star systems, capable of focusing enough intense energy in one spot to open up a "hole" in space, an interdimensional gateway to a parallel universe. 

Unfortunately, preliminary calculations show that such a wormhole might only be microscopic in size. In this case, an advanced civilization, in desperation, may shoot a molecule-size "nanobot" through the wormhole, a tiny robot with instructions to build a factory which can create billions of copies of itself. They will then make a huge DNA factory capable of recreating full-scale genetic copies of their original masters, sufficient to recreate their entire civilization on the other side of the wormhole. For intelligent life, there is no choice. Either we leave for a warmer universe, or we die in the old one. If the Pentagon thinks it has a problem, we physicists have it much worse! 

--- 

Mr. Kaku, professor of theoretical physics at CUNY, is author of "Parallel Worlds," out this month from Doubleday. 

Document J000000020050120e11k0001k


More Like This

 Article 434 *******************    



Inside Wall Street

Why Arrowhead May Outshoot the Nanotechs

By Gene G. Marcial 
Gene Marcial's Inside Wall Street is posted at businessweek.com/today.htm at 5 p.m. EST on the mag 
281 words 
7 February 2005
BusinessWeek
93
Volume 3919
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Nanotechnology, which involves the design of materials or devices at the molecular level, hasn't produced many big winners. One stellar performer, however, has been tiny Arrowhead Research (ARWR), which topped other stocks in the Merrill Lynch nanotech index. It zoomed from 1.95 in January, 2004, to 4.32 on Dec. 31. The volatile stock -- not for the faint of heart -- is now at 3.96. The index, made up of 27 nanotech stocks traded in the U.S., has been flat since its Apr. 1 launch. Arrowhead signed a pact in early 2004 with California Institute of Technology to fund Caltech's nanotech research in exchange for the rights to market future products. Karsten Siebert of Midas Research rates Arrowhead, which has yet to make a dime, a ``speculative buy.'' The company could be the ``wild card'' among the nanotechs because of its close ties with Caltech, Siebert says. The analyst sees the stock hitting 6 in year. 

Arrowhead President Bruce Stewart says one product apt to hit the market late this year is an atomic force microscope probe, 1,000 times as sensitive as the existing ones. It lets scientists image and manipulate molecules and atoms in nano dimensions. 

Note: Unless otherwise noted, neither the sources cited in Inside Wall Street nor their firms hold positions in the stocks under discussion. Similarly, they have no investment banking or other financial relationships with them. 

illustration | Illustration: Chart: A SMART BOUNCEBACK CHARTS BY ERIC HOFFMANN/BW 


Document BW00000020050203e1270000p


More Like This

 Article 435 *******************    



The Bush Budget Proposal: R&D Is Allotted More Money -- But Just Barely --- NIH Slated for 0.7% Rise, Well Under Inflation Rate, Following Five Fat Years 

By Bernard Wysocki Jr. 
773 words 
8 February 2005
The Wall Street Journal
A15
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Biomedical researchers and their supporters expressed disappointment, but not surprise at the tight budgets for research spending President Bush is proposing for next year. 

The White House proposed an overall budget for research and development of $132.5 billion, up less than 1% from 2005 levels. That includes a 1% cut in basic research, and a flat budget for applied research, but a 2% increase for "development," which covers R&D for production of useful materials, devices or systems. 

The White House said the 2006 budget "targets important research investments" that span multiple agencies, such as R&D in the areas of combating terrorism, nanotechnology, networking technology and climate change. 

But an effective budget cut for the National Institutes of Health is the chief cause of concern, research supporters say. Mr. Bush asked Congress to increase funding for NIH, the nation's premier medical research center, by 0.7%, to about $28.8 billion -- well under the rate of inflation. 

That's a smaller rise than last year, and far below the robust increases of 1998-2003, when the NIH budget doubled in the five years ended in fiscal 2003. 

"We're distressed by the level of support," said William Leinweber, executive vice president of ResearchAmerica, a nonprofit advocacy group based in Alexandria, Va., with members including biotech companies, patient groups and universities. Despite the ballooning federal deficit, "We must make certain the health of the American people isn't crowded out," he said. 

NIH funding has a wide constituency, ranging from patient advocates who want to see money spent to develop medical therapies, to universities whose scientists bring in billions of dollars in NIH research grants each year. Roughly 80% of the NIH budget -- more than $20 billion a year -- goes to so-called extramural research done by non-NIH personnel outside the sprawling NIH campus in Bethesda, Md. 

Advocacy groups say they will urge their members to press Congress to provide more money for research, and for NIH in particular. 

Lawmakers are already weighing in. Rep. Diana DeGette, (D., Colo.) called it "foolhardy" to increase the NIH by less than the annual rate of inflation, currently about 2.3%. She added that there is a consensus among Democrats that "the president is greatly shortchanging domestic programs for tax cuts targeted at the wealthy, and for defense spending." 

But some NIH watchers think that Congress will eventually succumb to the need for spending restraint. David Moore of the Association of American Medical Colleges thinks that ultimately the NIH budget Congress approves will be about the level proposed by President Bush -- or perhaps a bit lower. 

Advocates acknowledge that the NIH budget has been well fed in recent years. With the release of the 2006 federal budget request yesterday, though, there was widespread unhappiness with the latest numbers. 

The National Cancer Institute budget, proposed to be a bit above $4.8 billion, essentially the same as in 2005, came in for criticism. Ellen Sigal, chairman of Friends of Cancer Research, a nonprofit, said the flat funding would slow work in genomics, nanotechnologies and other research fields in the fight against cancer. 

Within research institutes, administrators say they are worried that the flattening of the budget will mean that younger researchers are less likely to get their proposals approved. At the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa, Fla., with 250 researchers, William Dalton, chief executive, said, " The more established investigators will continue to be successful. The young people coming into the field are the ones who suffer" from tight budgets. 

Some believe the 2006 budget harks back to the mid-1980s, a previous period of tight NIH budgets. "We did this 'experiment' 20 years ago and we know what happens. The first victim is innovation," said Paul Kincade, president of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, whose members include many university scientists. 

Within the NIH, most of the 27 centers and institutes would receive only nominal budget increases. But spending on biodefense would rise 3.2% next year to about $1.8 billion. 

Outside of NIH, the National Science Foundation would get a 2.4% increase in 2006, to a proposed $5.6 billion. That follows an actual cut in 2005, though, leaving next year's proposed budget below that of 2004. Another large research budget, within the Department of Energy, is proposed to be $3.46 billion, slightly below the level of the past two years. 



Document J000000020050208e1280003a


More Like This

 Article 436 *******************    



Researchers Hope To Use Stem Cells To Grow New Teeth 

By Michelle Rama Dow Jones Newswires 
1,212 words 
10 February 2005
The Wall Street Journal
B2
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

New York -- RENAE BONNER IS looking forward to the day when the molar she had pulled last year can be replaced by a real tooth -- her own tooth -- and not a dental implant, bridge or denture. 

That day might be about 10 years from now, but the 27-year-old Columbus, Ohio, dental assistant is very likely to get her wish, researchers and dental industry experts say. 

That's because bioengineers have successfully grown rat and pig tooth crowns using the animals' stem cells. Their research shows it may be possible someday to grow new human teeth from an individual's own cells. 

It might be worth waiting for the technology, Ms. Bonner says, because it would avoid less attractive options, such as "shaving down a virgin tooth" for a bridge or getting dentures. Even the most advanced option on the market -- dental implants -- aren't too appealing, she says, because "you have to wait the full six months for the bone to grow back and guarantee that it's going to be stable." 

The eventual market size for tooth regeneration will depend on the technology's price, how well it works and how complicated it is to apply. The American Dental Association estimates the U.S. dental replacement market was $11.7 billion in 2003. That figure includes complete and partial dentures, implant services, prosthodontic fixed (retainers and pontics) and other fixed partial denture services. 

Ms. Bonner says she would be willing to spend $10,000, a big chunk of her $24,000-a-year salary, for a procedure researchers say will likely involve implanting into her gums a scaffold, or mold, containing her own cells. 

A scaffold is a sponge-like support matrix that allows researchers to position the cells exactly where they need to be for the tooth to take the proper shape. Her tooth would form over time on the scaffold inside her mouth, then erupt naturally from her gums to replace her missing molar. 

That's how Pamela Yelick -- whose work for the Forsyth Institute is among the most prominent research published to date on tooth regeneration -- envisions the application of her team's studies. Dr. Yelick, the study's principal investigator, is leading five researchers in finding out how postnatal stem cells -- like those found in wisdom teeth -- can be used to form a whole human tooth. 

"Preliminary results published to date show this technology is definitely working," Dr. Yelick said. In June, her research team published a paper in the Journal of Dental Research documenting successful results in regenerating rat tooth crowns. It was the Forsyth Institute's second success, after regenerating pig tooth crowns in 2002. The evidence, Dr. Yelick wrote in June, "allows us to hope for similar success with human teeth." 

Dr. Yelick's Boston-based team is currently devising a scaffold that will position the epithelial cells that form the enamel -- the hard tissue on the outside of the tooth -- and the mesenchymal cells that make dentin -- the softer tissue inside the tooth -- enabling the researchers to form a tooth of a precise size and shape. They use cells harvested from pigs' and rats' unerupted teeth, which are then cultured in vitro and implanted on the scaffold into the animal's abdomen, a good place for tissue growth because it's rich in blood and nutrients. The abdomen step will be eliminated for human procedures. 

The results have been promising, and Dr. Yelick expects tooth regeneration to be in human testing about seven years from now. 

"We're making good progress, but because it's so cutting edge, it's difficult to get funding from the National Institutes of Health," she noted. "They want you to have bioengineered a whole functional tooth before funding you." 

The research has been funded in part by Harvard University and Dentigenix, a Seattle developer of biotechnology for dentistry owned by privately held Ivoclar Vivadent of Liechtenstein. 

Forsyth has licensed part of its technology to Dentigenix, hoping it would develop the best preclinical models -- the quickest way to get bioengineered teeth into human trials. 

As far as Dentigenix President and Chief Operating Officer Erick Rabins is concerned, human tooth regeneration will be a reality, and "the question is when, not if." 

His firm has taken on the role of "primary organizer of this technology as it moves forward," with Forsyth's work as a focal point, given its collaborations with the foremost tissue experts in the world, Mr. Rabins said. 

Having acquired a series of patents in this area, the company plans to take an "evolutionary approach" to dental tissue regeneration. Dentigenix has licensed technology from the NIH's National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research that uses stem cells from baby teeth for regenerating dental pulp, and soon expects to begin human trials on the technology. Mr. Rabins predicts it will eliminate the need for half the root canals performed today by regrowing dentin around the pulp or nerve where it's exposed. 

"That would be a reality before whole tooth regeneration," according to Mr. Rabins. He puts Food and Drug Administration approval for dentin regeneration about two years away. Such an approval would, he predicts, begin a shift in the dental industry toward remineralization, or repairing damaged tissue with human cells. The next step would be regrowing portions of the tooth, then growing a whole tooth. 

Generating an entire tooth will take longer, he said, because enamel will be more difficult -- though not impossible -- to grow, and will likely require the assistance of crystallography or nanotechnology. 

The research going on in tooth regeneration is "very exciting," American Dental Association research director Fred Eichmiller said, and the ADA sees it as "the next step beyond implants." 

As for the market potential, he's concerned that "most dental companies don't have the resources that would be required to bring a technology like this to market." 

Even getting FDA approval is a hurdle. Clinical trials are more extensive for tissue engineering than drugs, Dr. Eichmiller said, given the high risk for an adverse response that's usually associated with introducing a biologic into the human body. 

Nonetheless, Dr. Eichmiller said, "I think it's going to happen, but I think it's going to happen a long way off . . . at least a decade." 

The chief executive of Dentsply International Inc., the largest supplier of dental equipment in the world, expects there to be many other patients like Renae Bonner, who, in order to have a natural tooth, will be willing to shell out double or more of the roughly $4,000 it costs to get a dental implant. 

"This obviously would be one revolutionary product for dentistry," said Dentsply Chief Executive Gary Kunkle, since "the objective is always to get it as close to the tooth aesthetically and functionally." 

The $1.7 billion maker of dental implants is "absolutely involved and fully intent on being a part of" tooth regeneration technology, Mr. Kunkle said. The company, which has been researching regeneration for several years, raised its R&D budget by 20% when it opened an office of advanced technology two years ago to focus its efforts in this area. 

Document J000000020050210e12a0002b


More Like This

 Article 437 *******************    



Suddenly Sexy; Air Products & Chemicals stages a makeover. 

Brett Nelson 
1,308 words 
14 February 2005
Forbes
122
Volume 175 Issue 3
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

A generic giant, Air Products & Chemicals, stages a makeover to bet on flat-screen TVs, hydrogen-powered cars and microchips. 

If you've ever pounded a PC, watched a flat-screen TV or filled up at the gas pump, chances are Air Products & Chemicals in Allentown, Pa. had something to do with it. This generic giant, with $7 billion in sales and the unsexiest of names, is fast becoming a crucial player in some sexy businesses. 

Makers of computer chips and flat-panel televisions need its chemical molecules and gases to build better chips and snazzy screens. Oil refineries and automakers count on it for the hydrogen needed to make gasoline (and, someday, to power fuel cells). The elderly breathe easier with its portable, lightweight oxygen canisters. It even has a hand in the budding field of nanotechnology. 

The company made its name in the industrial gas business, supplying oxygen, nitrogen and argon gases at customer factories. But today Air Products gets half its sales from three faster-growing arenas--energy, electronics and health care--up from 30% in 1999. 

Credit that makeover to Chief Executive John P. Jones, a soft-spoken chemical engineer who logged 28 years with Air Products before rising to chief executive in 2000. In the 1990s bull market gas companies binged on new plants, and Air Products ended up with the worst hangover. Beset by a weak economy, rising prices of natural gas (a main ingredient in the chemicals it makes) and foolhardy expansion, the company was struggling. 

"We had fallen into the syndrome that 'Our business isn't doing well from a return point of view, but, by God, this new plant is gonna be a screamer!'" he says. 

Air Products hoped bigness would cure its woes, but a deal to buy giant British Oxygen for $11 billion was scotched by the Federal Trade Commission in mid-2000. Jones, looking elsewhere for a fix, sold $1 billion worth of plodding businesses, including a 50-year-old division that sold gas in small portable cylinders. He overhauled the research budget, boosting R&D funding for those three faster-growing businesses to 72% of the company's budget, up from 45% in 1999. (It now spends $130 million a year on R&D.) 





 By the Numbers   
 Fresh Air   
 Half of Air Products' sales come from the energy, electronics and health care sectors.   
 130 
Estimated 
number of gases and chemicals involved in 
making computer chips and liquid- crystal displays.   
 30
Number of 
experimental 
hydrogen filling stations built by Air Products for fuel-cell-powered vehicles.   
 16
Hours' worth 
of breathable 
oxygen supplied by Air Products' new Freedom 600 portable cylinders.   
 1.6
Billion cubic feet of gas (predominantly 
hydrogen) per day that Air Products supplies to oil 
refineries and petrochemical 
outfits.   
 Sources: Mortgage Bankers Association; 
Government Accountability Office.   
    




After watching net income (less one-time adjustments) slide three years in a row, Jones finally has some breathing room. For the fiscal year ended Sept. 30 profits rose 52% to $604 million, on sales of $7.4 billion, up 18%, more than double the annual growth rate over the last ten years. The bulls who have sent Air Products' stock to $57 a share, 21 times trailing earnings, expect even better returns as demand for chemicals picks up. "He's done a good job in a difficult environment," says Goldman Sachs analyst Robert Koort. "Now they are ready to harvest the gain." 

In the energy industry Air Products' sales of hydrogen and other gases to oil refineries and petrochemical outfits are at $1.1 billion and growing at 10% a year (twice as fast as the industrial-gas industry overall). Oil refineries use hydrogen to strip sulfur from sour crude supplies, especially those from Mexico and Venezuela, and to meet stringent clean-fuel regulations. Usually refineries make their own hydrogen, getting only 6% of their supply by buying it from outsiders like Air Products. But this portion could grow, given the hassles of making hydrogen:It requires a six-story furnace, called a steam-methane reformer, where natural gas combines with steam and nickel at 1,600 degrees Fahrenheit to unleash hydrogen gas. Large plants can cost $100 million and take two years to build. With 60 plants and 650 miles of pipeline, Air Products has 41% of this market; number two rival Praxair has 25%. 

Air's sales to the electronics industry are also growing at an estimated 10% a year and are at $1.2 billion. The company is the largest one-stop shop for gases and chemicals in electronics. It sells 100 of the 130 molecules used in making semiconductor chips and liquid-crystal displays. One of these, for chips, is tungsten hexafluoride gas, used to deposit tiny lines of metal in patterns to connect millions of transistors. In LCDs silane gas breaks down into a film of silicon that forms the transistors that stimulate the pixels in the screen. (Flat-panel screens are essentially large semiconductor devices that sit on pieces of glass rather than on silicon wafers.) Another gas, nitrogen trifluoride, cleans the chambers in which both chips and LCDs are made. 

Air Products makes roughly 80% of its molecules from scratch, while Praxair and other marketers simply package and resell. Jones is betting that as technology cycles get shorter, manufacturers will favor nimble suppliers who can help them figure out how to churn out smaller, faster chips. The broader benefit of all that science: "Having the technical product helps Air Products also sell the commodity gases" to those same customers, says Alain Harrus, former tech chief at chip-equipment maker Novellus. 

Yet just as Air Products' old-line business became marred by pricing pressure and slowing growth, so could its newer pursuits. As the trend toward smaller and faster chips slows (as it must, given the nature of atoms), Air's technical advantage shrinks. LCDs may pick up the slack in the short term as Samsung's flat panels boom. But softening prices for those gadgets and increased gas supply from Asian producers will squeeze Air Products' margins. A $4,000 flat-panel TV with an LCD will cost half as much by 2006 and less than $1,000 by 2008, forecasts Isuppli Corp. As that happens, the price for low-grade nitrogen trifluoride for LCDs, Air Products' biggest seller to the electronics industry, will fall, too; David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank estimates a drop to $35 per pound in a couple years from a recent $46. The company will offset some of this decline on larger volumes. 

But Jones is turning to a new area as well:nanotechnology, manipulating molecules in materials to enhance their performance. He hopes to find smart applications for nanoresearch done at other companies. "They are ahead of the pack in that area," says Roger Shamel, president of Consulting Resources Corp., an adviser to the chemicals industry. One joint venture, with Germany's Nanogate, makes metal-oxide particles that absorb heat--ideal, one day, for colorless coatings on windows in cars and high-rise buildings. 

Another futuristic endeavor:Jones wants a role in hydrogen-powered fuel cells for vehicles. He has 30 engineers designing experimental filling stations that dispense the gas. Air Products has built 30 stations worldwide, mainly for municipalities and the auto companies. Last spring the Department of Energy, as part of President Bush's $1.2 billion hydrogen initiative, named Air to head a group to build another 24 stations in the U.S. And with all that pipe in the ground to refineries, it would be easy to supply the hydrogen, too. This is still quite a few years away but maybe soon enough for Air Products & Chemicals to start thinking about a name change. 

Document FB00000020050209e12e0003n


More Like This

 Article 438 *******************    



Suddenly Sexy; Air Products & Chemicals stages a makeover. 

Brett Nelson 
1,308 words 
14 February 2005
Forbes
122
Volume 175 Issue 3
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

A generic giant, Air Products & Chemicals, stages a makeover to bet on flat-screen TVs, hydrogen-powered cars and microchips. 

If you've ever pounded a PC, watched a flat-screen TV or filled up at the gas pump, chances are Air Products & Chemicals in Allentown, Pa. had something to do with it. This generic giant, with $7 billion in sales and the unsexiest of names, is fast becoming a crucial player in some sexy businesses. 

Makers of computer chips and flat-panel televisions need its chemical molecules and gases to build better chips and snazzy screens. Oil refineries and automakers count on it for the hydrogen needed to make gasoline (and, someday, to power fuel cells). The elderly breathe easier with its portable, lightweight oxygen canisters. It even has a hand in the budding field of nanotechnology. 

The company made its name in the industrial gas business, supplying oxygen, nitrogen and argon gases at customer factories. But today Air Products gets half its sales from three faster-growing arenas--energy, electronics and health care--up from 30% in 1999. 

Credit that makeover to Chief Executive John P. Jones, a soft-spoken chemical engineer who logged 28 years with Air Products before rising to chief executive in 2000. In the 1990s bull market gas companies binged on new plants, and Air Products ended up with the worst hangover. Beset by a weak economy, rising prices of natural gas (a main ingredient in the chemicals it makes) and foolhardy expansion, the company was struggling. 

"We had fallen into the syndrome that 'Our business isn't doing well from a return point of view, but, by God, this new plant is gonna be a screamer!'" he says. 

Air Products hoped bigness would cure its woes, but a deal to buy giant British Oxygen for $11 billion was scotched by the Federal Trade Commission in mid-2000. Jones, looking elsewhere for a fix, sold $1 billion worth of plodding businesses, including a 50-year-old division that sold gas in small portable cylinders. He overhauled the research budget, boosting R&D funding for those three faster-growing businesses to 72% of the company's budget, up from 45% in 1999. (It now spends $130 million a year on R&D.) 





 By the Numbers   
 Fresh Air   
 Half of Air Products' sales come from the energy, electronics and health care sectors.   
 130 
Estimated 
number of gases and chemicals involved in 
making computer chips and liquid- crystal displays.   
 30
Number of 
experimental 
hydrogen filling stations built by Air Products for fuel-cell-powered vehicles.   
 16
Hours' worth 
of breathable 
oxygen supplied by Air Products' new Freedom 600 portable cylinders.   
 1.6
Billion cubic feet of gas (predominantly 
hydrogen) per day that Air Products supplies to oil 
refineries and petrochemical 
outfits.   
 Sources: Mortgage Bankers Association; 
Government Accountability Office.   
      




After watching net income (less one-time adjustments) slide three years in a row, Jones finally has some breathing room. For the fiscal year ended Sept. 30 profits rose 52% to $604 million, on sales of $7.4 billion, up 18%, more than double the annual growth rate over the last ten years. The bulls who have sent Air Products' stock to $57 a share, 21 times trailing earnings, expect even better returns as demand for chemicals picks up. "He's done a good job in a difficult environment," says Goldman Sachs analyst Robert Koort. "Now they are ready to harvest the gain." 

In the energy industry Air Products' sales of hydrogen and other gases to oil refineries and petrochemical outfits are at $1.1 billion and growing at 10% a year (twice as fast as the industrial-gas industry overall). Oil refineries use hydrogen to strip sulfur from sour crude supplies, especially those from Mexico and Venezuela, and to meet stringent clean-fuel regulations. Usually refineries make their own hydrogen, getting only 6% of their supply by buying it from outsiders like Air Products. But this portion could grow, given the hassles of making hydrogen:It requires a six-story furnace, called a steam-methane reformer, where natural gas combines with steam and nickel at 1,600 degrees Fahrenheit to unleash hydrogen gas. Large plants can cost $100 million and take two years to build. With 60 plants and 650 miles of pipeline, Air Products has 41% of this market; number two rival Praxair has 25%. 

Air's sales to the electronics industry are also growing at an estimated 10% a year and are at $1.2 billion. The company is the largest one-stop shop for gases and chemicals in electronics. It sells 100 of the 130 molecules used in making semiconductor chips and liquid-crystal displays. One of these, for chips, is tungsten hexafluoride gas, used to deposit tiny lines of metal in patterns to connect millions of transistors. In LCDs silane gas breaks down into a film of silicon that forms the transistors that stimulate the pixels in the screen. (Flat-panel screens are essentially large semiconductor devices that sit on pieces of glass rather than on silicon wafers.) Another gas, nitrogen trifluoride, cleans the chambers in which both chips and LCDs are made. 

Air Products makes roughly 80% of its molecules from scratch, while Praxair and other marketers simply package and resell. Jones is betting that as technology cycles get shorter, manufacturers will favor nimble suppliers who can help them figure out how to churn out smaller, faster chips. The broader benefit of all that science: "Having the technical product helps Air Products also sell the commodity gases" to those same customers, says Alain Harrus, former tech chief at chip-equipment maker Novellus. 

Yet just as Air Products' old-line business became marred by pricing pressure and slowing growth, so could its newer pursuits. As the trend toward smaller and faster chips slows (as it must, given the nature of atoms), Air's technical advantage shrinks. LCDs may pick up the slack in the short term as Samsung's flat panels boom. But softening prices for those gadgets and increased gas supply from Asian producers will squeeze Air Products' margins. A $4,000 flat-panel TV with an LCD will cost half as much by 2006 and less than $1,000 by 2008, forecasts Isuppli Corp. As that happens, the price for low-grade nitrogen trifluoride for LCDs, Air Products' biggest seller to the electronics industry, will fall, too; David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank estimates a drop to $35 per pound in a couple years from a recent $46. The company will offset some of this decline on larger volumes. 

But Jones is turning to a new area as well:nanotechnology, manipulating molecules in materials to enhance their performance. He hopes to find smart applications for nanoresearch done at other companies. "They are ahead of the pack in that area," says Roger Shamel, president of Consulting Resources Corp., an adviser to the chemicals industry. One joint venture, with Germany's Nanogate, makes metal-oxide particles that absorb heat--ideal, one day, for colorless coatings on windows in cars and high-rise buildings. 

Another futuristic endeavor:Jones wants a role in hydrogen-powered fuel cells for vehicles. He has 30 engineers designing experimental filling stations that dispense the gas. Air Products has built 30 stations worldwide, mainly for municipalities and the auto companies. Last spring the Department of Energy, as part of President Bush's $1.2 billion hydrogen initiative, named Air to head a group to build another 24 stations in the U.S. And with all that pipe in the ground to refineries, it would be easy to supply the hydrogen, too. This is still quite a few years away but maybe soon enough for Air Products & Chemicals to start thinking about a name change. 

Document FB00000020050131e12e0000y


More Like This

 Article 439 *******************    



Cover Story

Why The Old Rules Don't Apply; At this size, familiar materials can do things they couldn't do before 

By Stephen Baker and Adam Aston in New York 
485 words 
14 February 2005
BusinessWeek
68
Volume 3920
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

How does nanotech work? For starters, it's tiny. For lots of jobs today, that's a prerequisite. The semiconductor industry needs ever-smaller tools and components to build coming generations of chips. Nothing bigger than nano-scale bits will fit. Similarly, some of the latest fuel cells carry nano-scale meshes on their filters. These help to sift electrons from hydrogen ions -- a crucial step in creating electricity. For exacting work like that, nano -- from the Greek for dwarf -- is a perfect fit. 

Nanotech derives much of its power from transformations that occur when matter is reduced to the molecular dimension. For example, breaking down a chunk of a material into nanoparticles vastly increases its surface area, often by a factor of millions. This makes it dramatically more reactive -- quicker to ignite or melt and absorbing more faster. Think of a spoonful of confectioner's sugar dissolving instantly in a cup of coffee, while a sugar cube in another cup has barely begun to lose its sharp corners. 

Why does this matter? Drugmakers are betting that nano's greater absorption rate will lead to far more efficient dosages of drugs, many delivered as nano specks. And by making the particles chemically reactive, scientists are building exquisitely sensitive sensors that can detect individual molecules. 

Thanks to all that surface area, nanoparticles often appear hypersensitive. Take gold. Although inert when wrapped around a finger or filling a tooth, at its tiniest size it becomes a potent catalyst -- one that could be used to purge carbon monoxide from the atmosphere. And aluminum at the nano scale ``can catalyze rocket fuel,'' says Steve Jurvetson of Silicon Valley venture-capital firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson, which has invested some $95 million in 11 nano startups. ``It literally explodes.'' 

Lots of other changes occur when matter sheds its heft. Some nano materials, when reduced to a size smaller than a wavelength of light, become invisible. This opens the possibility of having materials we know as opaque, such as silicon, transmit light. Others become fabulously strong. Carbon nanotubes, for example, share a similar atomic structure with their cousin, the diamond. This makes them sturdy, yet their willowy form leaves them as flexible as a noodle -- a combination of strength and suppleness that's tough to find in the larger universe. 

Lots of the nano world remains a mystery. In its miniature form, matter pays little heed to the familiar world of Newtonian physics. The laws of gravity, optics, and acceleration represent averages, not the quirky behavior of each single nanoparticle. For those principles, researchers must venture into quantum physics. Those who come to grips with this realm and can harness its power stand to become the titans of the nano age. 

Document BW00000020050210e12e0000s


More Like This

 Article 440 *******************    



Cover Story

The Business Of Nanotech; There's still plenty of hype, but nanotechnology is finally moving from the lab to the marketplace. Get ready for cars, chips, and golf balls made with new materials engineered down to the level of individual atoms 

By Stephen Baker and Adam Aston 
4,036 words 
14 February 2005
BusinessWeek
64
Volume 3920
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Pity the poor alchemists. They spent the Middle Ages in candle-lit laboratories, laboring to brew universal elixirs and to turn base metals into gold or silver. They failed utterly. By the dawn of the Scientific Revolution, researchers equipped with microscopes founded modern chemistry -- and dismissed alchemy as hocus-pocus. 

But it turns out alchemists were just a few centuries ahead of schedule. Today, in sparkling labs equipped with powerful microscopes, scientists on three continents are promising dramatic new materials and medicines that would make alchemists proud. This work takes place in the realm of nanotechnology, industry's tiniest stage. The standard unit of measurement, a nanometer, is a billionth of a meter -- barely the size of 10 hydrogen atoms in a row. In this universe entire dramas can unfold on the tip of a pin, and a sneeze packs the punch of a raging hurricane. 

Why so small? Researchers have discovered that matter at this tiny scale often behaves very differently. While some of the science behind this phenomenon is still shrouded in mystery (page 68), the commercial potential of the infinitesimal is coming sharply into focus. Familiar materials -- from gold to carbon soot -- display startling and useful new properties. Some transmit light or electricity. Others become harder than diamonds or turn into potent chemical catalysts. What's more, researchers find that a tiny dose of nanoparticles can transform the chemistry and nature of far bigger things, creating everything from fortified fenders to superefficient fuel cells. Engineers working at the nano scale have a brand-new tool kit that's full of wonder and brimming with potential riches. 

Now it's time to start cashing in. Throughout 2005, companies large and small will be rushing more nano-based products from labs to the marketplace. Consumers will encounter nanotechnology in the form of nick-proof trims on Hummers, Wilson tennis racquets with extra pop, even golf balls designed to fly straight. Investors, meanwhile, will be faced with a slew of bold announcements. On Feb. 1, for example, computer giant Hewlett-Packard Co. disclosed a breakthrough in nanotechnology that, within a decade, could carry computing beyond today's silicon and transistors. ``We are reinventing the computer at the molecular scale,'' says Stan Williams, an HP senior fellow and co-author of the report. 

For now, nano is starting out modestly. The biggest markets for nanoparticles remain in familiar products, from the black rubber filler in tires, a $4 billion industry, to the silver used in traditional photography. Lux Research Inc., a New York nanotech market researcher, estimates that only $13 billion worth of manufactured goods will incorporate nanotechnologies this year. That's little more than a rounding error in the global economy. 

Feverish Activity 

Yet new nano-based products that could have a far bigger impact are only a step or two away. Within the next two years, diagnostic machines with components built at the nano scale should allow doctors and nurses to carry pint-size laboratories in their briefcases, perhaps to test for HIV or count white blood cells on the spot. Nano sensors will scour airports and post offices for anthrax and sarin. Toward the end of the decade, scientists say, new computer memories composed of nanoparticles could conceivably pack the digital contents of the Library of Congress into a machine the size of a yo-yo. By that point, Lux predicts, nanotechnologies will have worked their way into a universe of products worth $292 billion. 

How does nanotechnology conjure up such surprises? Nature provides examples of this molecular magic. Think of coal compressing, over millennia, into diamonds. The gems are made of the same carbon atoms. But they've been rejiggered over time into orderly crystal patterns linked by superstrong chemical bonds. Soft becomes hard, sooty blackness becomes glittering clarity. 

These days scientists can pull off such transformations between coffee breaks. With atomic probes they manipulate molecules, one-upping Mother Nature. Delving into the nano realm gives them startling surprises right in the old periodic table of elements -- and they're filing a flurry of patents to lay claim to these miraculous materials. ``It's a land grab,'' says Douglas Sharrott, a patent lawyer at Fitzpatrick, Cella, Harper & Scinto in New York. 

The questions around nano are no longer whether it's coming or if it's real but just how big it will be. Some see nano simply as a new material revolution, akin to the dawn of plastics. Others herald a transition as dramatic as mankind's advance from stone to metal tools. But those hazy predictions aside, the questions that are echoing from laboratories in Tokyo to the hectic offices of short-sellers on Wall Street are about money. Which nanotechnologies will create new fortunes, industries, and corporate champs? 

Activity on the ground is feverish. Some 1,200 nano startups have emerged around the world, half of them in the U.S. Companies that long labored in dull-as-dishwater materials businesses are finding that they can create a stir by trumpeting their mastery over age-old particles, from specks of ceramic to soot. Brokerages such as Merrill Lynch & Co. and Punk, Ziegle & Co. are scouring the markets for nano-focused companies and plunking them into nano indexes. Meanwhile, investors, torn between an alluring new market and the fear of a dot-com-like bubble, are struggling to get a grip on exactly what nano means for them. 

Their confusion is understandable. Nano is not a single industry but a scale of engineering involving matter between 1 and 100 nanometers. Instead of one new phenomenon, like the Internet, nano offers new possibilities for thousands of materials that already exist. This means much of the early activity will likely take place at industrial giants. Already, 19 of the 30 companies in the Dow Jones industrial index have launched nano initiatives. Says Margaret Blohm, manager of General Electric's nanotechnology research and development program: ``I lose sleep at night because expectations are so high.'' 

How do these tiny molecules create big new products? Sometimes size alone is the key. Consider DuPont's new Voltron, a super-durable wire coating used in heavy-duty electric motors. If you looked at previous generations of such coatings through a powerful microscope, the chemical components would look loosely packed, with irregular spaces between the molecules. This structure leads the material to break down more easily. Voltron's nanoscale particles fill in many of the voids, making a stronger insulator that lasts longer. In DuPont's tests on electric motors, a coating of Voltron extended the time between failures by a factor of 10, to more than 1,000 hours. And since such motors consume an estimated 65% of U.S. electric power, lengthening their life and efficiency promises big energy savings. ``This chemical combination can only be done with nanomaterials,'' says Krish Doraiswany, a senior planning manager for DuPont's nanotech research effort. 

Most of the early advances in nano will improve what we already have. Examples: lightweight army fatigues that resist chemical weapons and food packaging designed to keep last month's lettuce green and crunchy. Later this year, duffers will be able to buy golf balls manufactured by NanoDynamics Inc. in Buffalo, N.Y., that are designed to prevent a shift in weight as they spin. This should create balls that fly straight down the fairway and even hold a steadier line on the putting green. ``If demand for the balls takes off, this could become a major business for us,'' says NanoDynamics CEO Keith Blakely, who plans to sell the balls for a pricey $5 apiece. 

Beyond straight putts and fresh produce, can nano live up to its potential to create entirely new industries and corporate titans? The answer depends on how the players, from regulators to entrepreneurs, handle a host of thorny challenges. Governments must devise smart regulations to control new materials and therapies. Companies face logistical conundrums, such as carrying out quality control on shipments of minuscule carbon nanotubes and silicon crystals -- the I-beams and sheet glass of this industrial revolution -- that are virtually invisible. 

The nascent industry also must hammer out standards and enforcement practices that are sorely lacking. A 2004 study by Lux Research found that many of the 200 global suppliers of basic nanomaterials failed to deliver what they promised. ``As a group they have a frighteningly poor track record,'' says Lux Vice-President Matthew Nordon. The upshot? Until the industry puts a qualified supply chain in place, only innovators working with world-class labs can count on reliable material. This limits access to nanotechnology and hurts its growth. 

An even greater challenge for nano industries is to ensure that their new materials are safe in the human body and in the environment. Setbacks could sink nano companies and even lead to a global backlash among the same activists who are raging against genetically modified food. ``I'm worried about an overreaction to both the hype and the fear,'' says Kristen Kulinowski, an executive director at Rice University's Center for Biological & Environmental Nanotechnology. 

Such concerns rattle the equity markets. As recently as last summer, about a dozen nanotech companies were positioning themselves for initial public offerings. But last year's most widely anticipated IPO in the sector -- a $115 million offering for Nanosys Inc. in August -- was withdrawn at the last minute as investors cooled to a company rich in patents but still years from making a profit. Now the IPO market appears stalled, even for stars such as Nanofilm, a profitable Valley View (Ohio) manufacturer of optical films, and Konarka Technologies Inc., a Lowell (Mass.) leader in plastic solar panels. 

Premature Marketing? 

Doubts and confusion plague the market, where even the definition of nano is open to debate. When Merrill Lynch analysts released their Nano Index last April featuring 25 companies, critics howled that they were fueling hype -- and that a few of the pharmaceutical outfits on the list were included simply because they engaged in the common practice of making molecules. Merrill retooled the list, limiting it to companies that publicly stress a commitment to nano. Still, Manuel P. Asensio, president of Asensio & Co., a short-seller that is still betting against the stock of one nano index company -- NVE Corp., a maker of electronic sensor instruments -- continues to grumble. ``There is no market yet,'' he says. ``Isn't Merrill attempting to create a retail fervor?'' Merrill's Steven Milunovich, who directs its nanotech research, responds that the firm covers only three of the stocks on the index and compiles the list not to recommend investment vehicles but as a way to track the young industry. ``It's a 30-year trend, and we're only at the beginning,'' he says. 

In today's cautious climate, investors are focusing less on dazzling visions and more on companies with real products, customers, and profits. The leading performer in Merrill's index in 2004 was MTS Systems Corp., a 39-year-old testing-equipment company whose tools are widely used in nano labs. Its stock rose 80%. Harris & Harris Group Inc., a venture-capital firm with heavy investments in nano, saw its stock rise 75% -- a sign that investors hold high hopes for the segment. But most businesses selling true nano products, from materials company Altair Nanotechnologies Inc. to France's Flamel Technologies, a medical supplier, suffered market declines through 2004. And the Merrill index fell another 12% in January, 2005. 

No doubt nano is in for its share of bumps, with flops sure to outnumber successes by a wide margin. Yet the technology of the tiny is on track to disrupt nearly everything in its path, including companies, industries, and universities. Why? At the atomic level the boundaries among biology, chemistry, physics, and electronics lose much of their meaning. The sciences start to merge. Many of the winners in nano will be those that can reach across old boundaries and create novel hybrids. Israeli biologists and electrical engineers, for example, have teamed up to attach dna to carbon nanotubes to create microscopic transistors. These assemble themselves in the lab following a biological blueprint. The result is an inanimate transistor -- but one that grows, like a tadpole or a toenail. 

Funding Magnet 

Companies that can bring such innovations to market stand to restructure entire industries. Korea's Samsung Group plans to produce TV displays featuring the most prominent building blocks of the Nano Age -- carbon nanotubes -- by 2006. If successful, these screens could be lighter, cheaper, brighter, and more energy-efficient than today's models. The technology would spread quickly from TVs to computer screens, even electronic billboards. GE is adding a new nano-focused wing to its R&D center in Niskayuna, N.Y. The company won't disclose the size of its investment but says a 50-member team of researchers is looking to seed nano into everything from medical technology to lighting to high-performance turbines. 

For entrepreneurs, nano spells funding. Venture capitalists have invested $1 billion in nano companies, nearly half of it in the past two years. Meanwhile, government funding is holding steady at $4.7 billion annually, nearly equally divided among Asia, Europe, and North America. The cash is pouring into university labs and new nano corridors from Albany to Shanghai and Fukuoka prefecture in Japan. ``Any professor with his head screwed on has moved research programs into nano,'' says Greg Blonder, a partner at Morgenthaler Ventures. 

Many of the early prospectors are focusing on health-care testing tools, which are far less regulated than medicines and therapies. LabNow Inc., an Austin (Tex.) startup, has its sights set on addressing the AIDS epidemic. Using minute channels and sensors, the company has devised a blood laboratory on a chip the size of a business card. The patient places a single drop of blood on the chip, which is then inserted into a small electronic reader. Within minutes, HIV/AIDS patients can get a count of their white blood cells -- a crucial metric for treatment. Currently that test takes weeks or months in poor regions of the world, where blood samples are trundled back and forth in slow trucks. Patients can die waiting for the results. LabNow's technology has the potential to speed AIDS treatment in much of the world -- and let LabNow cash in on the $5 billion global market for point-of-care testing. In October, LabNow got $14 million in equity funding from a consortium led by George Soros. The company hopes to roll out its systems in South Africa by the end of 2005. 

Red Flag 

More dramatic breakthroughs are expected within two or three years as companies developing novel medical procedures begin to emerge from the regulatory maze. Already, nano-ized versions of existing drugs are causing a stir. Last month, American Pharmaceutical Partners Inc. shares surged 50% on news that the Food and Drug Administration had approved the marketing of Abraxane, a nanoscale protein-based drug for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. The nano version is able to squeeze into places in the body that its existing macro counterpart cannot without intolerable side effects. Further out, researchers are working on customized treatments, such as nanoparticles built to match the unique genetic profile of a patient's cancer cells -- and programmed to seek out and destroy them. Hundreds of these therapies are in the works. Most will fail. But if even a handful succeed, they could change medicine. 

To achieve such triumphs, nano companies must squelch fears about the effects of the particles in the body. Worries grew last spring when researchers at Southern Methodist University reported brain damage in a large-mouth bass that had been swimming in an aquarium stoked with common carbon-based nanoparticles known as buckyballs. Although far from conclusive, such findings raise red flags worldwide -- and they extend far beyond the networked legions of activists. Last year, giant reinsurer Swiss Reinsurance Co. warned against a rush into nano, citing ``the unforeseeable nature of the risks it entails and the recurrent and cumulative losses it could lead to.'' 

One industry that should be able to tap nano's potential without those risks is semiconductors. As the circuits and pathways on the chips grow tinier, manufacturers are running into problems. Electrons tunnel through flimsy walls that are only several atoms thick. The electricity coursing through the intricate maze generates searing heat, which is increasingly costly and hard to control. As the industry struggles to maintain Moore's Law, which predicts the doubling of computing power every 18 months, costs are exploding. The price of a new semiconductor fabricating plant is projected to reach $10 billion by the end of the decade. 

Nano innovators aren't likely to replace the silicon chip anytime soon, but they could help ease the squeeze over the next decade. This process has already started with memory chips, the least complicated kind. Within two or three years, developers hope to make viable memory chips from spaghetti-shaped carbon nanotubes, each one only 1 nm wide. Further out, engineers are learning how to replace minuscule metal circuits and gateways on today's chips with new nano-engineered materials. IBM researchers have built transistors with carbon nanotubes that promise ``a huge leap in performance while cutting heat loss,'' says Phaedon Avouris, a researcher at Big Blue's Nanometer Scale Science & Technology Labs. 

Despite this progress, it's a long hike to nanocomputing, not a sprint. HP researchers don't expect their platinum circuits to debut until 2011 at the earliest. And it won't be until much later in the next decade, say scientists, that nanotechnology may be able to provide a new architecture for faster computing in the post-Silicon era. 

The future of nanotechnology? It may seem strange now, but within a decade or so the term is likely to vanish from syllabuses and portfolios and remain part of company names only as a vestige of the past. After all, nano denotes only size. Once work on that scale becomes routine, that buzzword will fade. But the physical world -- medicines, metals, and even the roles the elements play -- will be utterly changed by this revolution, all brought about by bits far too small for the eye to see. 


The Nano Universe Expands Across The Material World
          
          Nanotechnology is taking its first steps into basic materials, from coatings to khakis. But over the next two decades it will spread into virtually every industry. A look at what's happening:
          
          TOOLS (AVAILABLE NOW)
 IMPACT: New tools for nano development are crucial enablers. Without them                           nano particles are too                                                          tiny to see or engineer. Companies that sell atomic-force microscopes and machines that manipulate molecules                                     are early winners in nano.
 PLAYERS: FEI, NanoInk, Veeco.
 CHALLENGE: The market is up and running. Now it's crucial to keep innovating.


 MATERIALS (NEXT THREE YEARS)
 IMPACT: Lighter tennis rackets that serve up aces, paint that doesn't peel, fabric coatings that won't stain. You won't notice the nano -- only that products work better.
 PLAYERS: 3M, Dow Chemical, DuPont, GE, NanoDynamics, NanoScale Materials, NASA.
 CHALLENGE: Manufacturing certain nanoparticles in industrial quantities is still a stretch. Too much hype followed by a product failure could hurt.

 ENERGY (NEXT FIVE YEARS)
 IMPACT: Low-cost nano-based films promise to capture                                                more of the sun's light than today's photovoltaics and could spark a revolution in solar power. Carbon                       nanotubes show potential for use in super-electric batteries and hydrogen storage. This improves the odds thathydrogen fuel cells could                                                                           replace fossil-fuel engines.
 PLAYERS: Carbon Nanotechnologies,                                                                   mPhase Technologies, NanoSolar, Nanosys,                                        UltraDots.
 CHALLENGE: Promising lab work will take time to scale up -- and bring costs down.

 HEALTH CARE (NEXT EIGHT YEARS)
 IMPACT: Portable labs to provide instant analysis for everything from diabetes to HIV are in the works. Implantable health monitors -- far smaller than pacemakers -- could use nanomaterials to draw power from the body's heat. Ultraprecise nano agents mayultimately be able to kill cancer cells or bombard the blood                    vessels that nourish tumors.
 PLAYERS: BioPhan, GE, Johnson & Johnson, LabNow, Nanokinetics, NASA, Quantum Dot.
 CHALLENGE: Noninvasive diagnostic tools should come                                                 to market fairly soon -- if companies can prove to regulators that nanomaterials injected into the body won't do harm.

 NANOELECTRONICS (NEXT DECADE)
 IMPACT: By 2020 handhelds packed with nanowires could wield unimaginable power                      and terabytes of memory.                                                        Carbon nanotubes are                         top contenders to replace                                                                           silicon-based chip technology, which could hit physical limits by 2015. Nanotubes can emit light, too, so they're beingdeveloped to replace bulbs and illuminate flat-panel displays.
 PLAYERS: HP, IBM, Intel,                                                                            Nano-Proprietary, Nantero, NVE, Samsung, Zettacore.
CHALLENGE: To scale up today's nanochip prototypes -- made of just a few circuits -- to the billions needed will require a leap in manufacturing technology.
  


 New Materials Renewed Products

 Nanotech can help cars resist dents -- and make medical tests speedier

 TOUGH
 The truck bed of GM's Hummer H2 SUT is lined with rugged nanocomposites

 LONG LIFE
 Nanoceramics promise to make GE's turbines more efficient

 QUICK STUDY
 A nanofilter from LabNow will give patients a fast count of white blood cells




  


Nanotechnology Step By Step
 The carbon nanotube, first discovered by                                                            NEC in Japan in 1991, is one of the most versatile and promising nanomaterials.                     Here's a nanotube's voyage from lab to market.

 1. CREATE
 Scientists direct a bolt of electricity -- or an intense flash of laser light -- into a high-pressure chamber of gas rich in carbon molecules. This sparks the formation of cylinders of carbon atoms, or nanotubes. While nearly invisible, these threads are 10 times stronger than steel and extremely heat-resistant.

 2. ENGINEER
 Using chemicals and beams of energy, scientists have learned                                        how to sort out and manipulate different classes of nanotubes. Some types conduct electricity, others areespecially strong. Scientists                                                        are weaving them into fortified string and fabrics.

 3. EXPERIMENT
 Researchers have been incorporating nanotubes into basic materials,                                 from textiles and plastics to wiring on miniature electronic circuity. Teaming with                 biologists, they're attaching the hollow tubes to organic molecules and testing them for medical therapies.

 4. APPLY
 Nanotubes show promise in a vast array of products, starting with today's superstrong fabrics. In time nanotubes may replace the transistors on ultrafastcomputer chips, light up the pixels in new TVs, and give birth to shape-morphing                    plane wings.
Data: Rice University, BW
  


Nano Risks
          
          To cash in on nanotechnology, companies must overcome a slew of challenges. The three biggest:
          
          HYPE
 Think Internet bubble 2.0. Extravagant hopes could fuel a global surge of investment followed by a backlash when products stumble in the market, are nixed by regulators, orfail to impress. This could slow development of nanotech by years.

 TOXICITY
 The air and water around us are awash in harmless, naturally occurring nano-particles. But if any of the new engineered nanoparticles are found to wreak havoc in the body, the entire field could face the same fervent global opposition that has hobbled genetically modified food.

 TIMING
 Miracles often arrive late. Consider genomics. A decade ago it promised scads of drugs and medical therapies that are still pending. Market turmoil, public fears, or production screwups could causedelays in nano, holding up breakthroughs in energy and medicine for a decade or more.
  

photograph | Photograph: ABOVE: BUILDING BLOCKS OF THE NANO AGE: Nature is a nano lab of its own when it transforms carbon atoms from coal into diamonds. Thanks to a new molecular order, soot turns into glimmering light. The next step? Scientists can now transform the same atoms into carbon nanotubes, which are stronger than steel, conduct electricity better than copper, and are virtually impervious to heat (L TO R) PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHOTOLIBRARY.COM; WILLIAM WHITEHURST/CORBIS; 3D ILLUSTRATION BY ROGER KENNY | photograph | Photograph: LOTS OF POP: Nano-size silicon dioxide crystals help power this Wilson nSixOne tennis racket 


Document BW00000020050210e12e00028


More Like This

 Article 441 *******************    



Small-Stock Focus

Integrated Circuit, Amkor Technology Post Gains 

By Karen Talley Dow Jones Newswires 
588 words 
14 February 2005
The Wall Street Journal
C4
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

NEW YORK -- Small stocks enter the week on a positive note, after a modest rally Friday with the overall market. 

Investors moved in to buy Friday, shrugging off a soft start caused by a disappointing outlook from large-cap Dell. And investors didn't adopt a defensive posture. They displayed boldness by going with groups considered more volatile, or speculative, than most. 

The S&P SmallCap 600 Index gained 3.06 points, or 0.94%, to 328.52 on Friday, now roughly two points away from the record it hit Feb. 8. For the week, though, the S&P 600 shed 1.1, or 0.3%. 

The Nasdaq Composite Index of large and small stocks rose 23.56, or 1.1%, to 2076.66 on Friday, and dropped 0.5%, for the week. The Russell 2000 Index of small stocks rose 7.95, or 1.3%, to 634.76 on Friday. But for the week, the Russell 2000 lost 0.4%. 

"Quality has done very well, but `high beta' was the preference," on Friday, said John Kvantas, portfolio manager of BB&T Small Company Value Fund. "There appeared to be a sense that there was some opportunity out there." 

Semiconductor stocks rallied, with Integrated Circuit Systems rising $1.44, or 7.8%, to $19.80, Amkor Technology gaining 36 cents, or 9.5%, to 4.14 and ESS Technology advancing 21 cents, or 3.9%, to 5.63. 

Investors also logged on to Internet stocks, taking them up after the weakness they experienced earlier in the week. Digital River rose 2.32, or 7.6%, to 33.01, United Online gained 19 cents, or 1.7%, to 11.58, and InfoSpace advanced 1.09, or 2.6%, to 43.11. 

Biotechnology, which includes a lot of developmental companies, was also a favorite Friday. Trimeris rose 86 cents, or 6.8%, to 13.60, Lexicon Genetics gained 21 cents, or 3.3%, to 6.51, and Ligand Pharmaceuticals advanced 13 cents, or 1.2%, to 10.80. InterMune rose 1.02, or 10%, to 11.09 after regulatory filings showed some big buying was done by company insiders and an institutional investor. 

Even so-called nanotech-related stocks rose. The nascent industry involves using very, very small technology to power or produce products. Harris & Harris gained 1.19, or 9.2%, to 14.09 and Lumera rose 62 cents, or 11%, to 6.06. 

Home builders were among the stocks with arguably more solid foundations that investors shunned. The group fell after Smith Barney downgraded a number of large-cap names. 

The investment firm said it still likes the group long term, but feels stock prices face a temporary plateau as the pace of upward earnings revisions slows. Among small-caps, Orleans Homebuilders on the American Stock Exchange dropped 89 cents, or 4.3%, to 20.04 and WCI Communities lost 25 cents to 33.08 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Taser International fell 94 cents, or 6.5%, to 13.48. The Chicago Police Department won't distribute more of the Scottsdale, Ariz., company's stun guns to its officers while it investigates the device's use on a man who died and a teen who was injured. 

Sharper Image lost 1.84, or 11%, to 15.10. The San Francisco high-end gadget and novelty retailer projected a deep loss in the first quarter on plummeting sales. 

Document J000000020050214e12e0000n


More Like This

 Article 442 *******************    



Euro Vision 

By Jean-Claude Trichet 
1,578 words 
24 February 2005
The Wall Street Journal
A14
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Correction 

In Jean-Claude Trichet's Feb. 24 editorial-page commentary, "Euro Vision," the increase in productivity per hour in Europe from 1996 to 2003 was misstated; the correct figure is 1.25%. 

(WSJ Feb. 28, 2005) 

(END) 


As president of the European Central Bank, I am struck sometimes by the European inclination to present facts and figures in a pessimistic way. As a matter of fact, real economic situations are most of the time complex and exhibit both positive as well as negative features. 

The example of structural reforms is a good one. There is a strong need and, certainly in my view, an even stronger need today than before, to pursue actively and to reinforce structural reforms in the European Union and the euro area. But this is not to say that nothing has been done in the past, nor that there have not been significant successes. 

Europeans launched a major process of economic structural reform at the end of the 1950s with the start of the European Economic Community. This progressively triggered major reforms in the markets of goods and services and in capital markets. After more than a quarter of a century, in 1986, it appeared necessary to give a new impetus to what was called at the time the "Common Market" strategy. The "Single Market" concept was introduced to set up a real unified single economy with effective free movement of persons on our continent and an effective and efficient functioning of the single market of goods, services and capital. A number of aspects of the Single Market still need to be completed, but the progress so far is already truly impressive. In 1992, a new treaty was signed setting the goal of a single currency for Europe, at the latest in 1999. This further quantum leap in the forces fostering economic integration has also been successfully achieved. 

--- 

What did these structural reforms at the continental level bring about in the last century, say from 1970 up to 2000? If we consider labor productivity as one of the possible measures of the efficiency of an economy, the results are impressive: output per hour worked in the euro area, which was only around 70% of the level of the U.S. in 1970, was equal to the U.S. level in 2000. The results are much less flattering as regards output per capita, which remained just over two-thirds that of the U.S. level over this period. The lack of convergence in output per capita to U.S. levels reflects the decreasing trend in labor utilization in Europe which resulted, in the 1970s and '80s, from strong increases in the unemployment rate and, over the entire period, from significant reductions in working hours per person employed in Europe -- contrasting with increasing participation rates in the U.S. 

This reduction in working time, which one can regret in terms of output per capita, does not overall diminish the success of Europe in the second half of the 20th century in terms of productivity. And there is little doubt that a large part of this success is attributable to the bold economic reforms triggered in particular by the treaties signed in 1957, in 1986 and in 1992. The Europeans can be proud of what they have done and can draw, from their past boldness, the courage and determination necessary to pursue and reinforce their strategy of structural reforms. 

Nevertheless, since approximately the mid-'90s, the situation vis-a-vis the U.S. is totally different in terms of labor productivity. The catching up process has not only been interrupted but reversed: from 1996 to 2003, U.S. productivity per hour has been augmented yearly by over 2% while it has increased by only around 1.75% in Europe. Part of the European evolution can be attributed to policies aimed at augmenting labor participation in the unskilled segment of the market. But at the level of the economy as a whole, a large part of the productivity gap seems to be attributed to capital deepening -- in fact Information and Communication Technology (ICT) capital deepening -- and total factor productivity associated with a better utilization of ICT. When analyzed by sector, it is impressive to see that, on top of the ICT-manufacturing productivity sector, it is the very rapid improvement in the ICT-using services sector (wholesale trade, retail trade, financial intermediation) that explains much of the difference. This productivity phenomenon explains, together with the unsatisfactory demographics of Europe, why European growth has been disappointing in comparison with the U.S. during the past decade. 

Drawing lessons from these longstanding and recent observations, I see five main reasons for actively pursuing the structural reforms that were set up in the "Lisbon Agenda" -- adopted by the European Council unanimously, courageously fostered by Wim Kok in his recent report to the European Council on the Lisbon strategy, and considered by the new Commission as fundamental in its work program. 

-- First and foremost, pursuing actively the structural reforms of the Lisbon Agenda -- which was designed to enable the EU "to regain the conditions for full employment" and to create "more and better jobs" -- will elevate the growth potential of Europe not only by increasing labor utilization but also by augmenting labor productivity. In the light of previous observations, the emphasis placed by the Lisbon Agenda, inter alia, on science and technology, on education and training, on increasing the flexibility of markets and competition, is well put. The rapid generalization of the efficient use of new technologies -- and not only ICT -- which is possible only in a largely flexible economy, is of the essence. 

-- Second, these reforms are all the more necessary because we are experiencing a scientific and technological revolution on a very large front. Not only information technology and communications are at stake: biotech and nanotech are also candidates for dramatically changing our economies, as well as the latest advances in physics, material science, chemistry, etc. The competitive advantage of the most flexible economies has considerably increased in a time of very rapid scientific and technological changes, which call not only for new manufacturing processes but also for new management and organizational concepts to be implemented in all industries -- as well as a sufficient ability of workers to adjust to these new challenges. 

-- Third, equally these reforms are all the more necessary because we are experiencing an acceleration in the globalization phenomenon. The speeding up of global trade, the globalization of finance, and the extremely rapid development of emerging Asia, are all calling for flexibility to take advantage of the exceptional opportunities offered by the growth of the developing countries concerned. The competitive advantage of flexible economies is also enhanced substantially in a time of accelerated globalization. 

-- Fourth, structural reforms are also improving the resilience of economies in time of shocks. In a rapidly changing global economy, one cannot expect to observe only gradual developments. The prevention of shocks at a global level is an urgent task for global governance. But one must be aware of the fact that they might, nevertheless, occur. In such a case, flexible economies are much more resilient, again enhancing their competitive advantage. 

Those four reasons are mutually reinforcing. It remains to be fully understood why it is precisely in the mid-'90s that we observed, quasi-simultaneously, a surge of productivity in the U.S. and some degree of "productivity fatigue" in Europe over and above what can be explained by actions in favor of employment by low-skilled workers. My own, prudent, conjecture would be that it is also approximately at this period that the world economy experienced an acceleration of globalization and a much stronger impact of the technological surge. This new global environment would discriminate between economies, with the most flexible ones taking a new advantage in this more mobile economic universe and the less flexible economies being hampered in terms of productivity by their difficulty to reallocate resources. Economic research will progressively enlighten us in this field. 

In any case we Europeans know that we can deliver structural reforms: we have done that efficiently in the past. The new state of the world is only adding new reasons to proceed in a direction which has been the European strategy since the late '50s, and has contributed, over almost half a century, to productivity progress, prosperity and jobs. 

-- Last but not least, there is a fifth reason to reinforce the implementation of structural reforms. A substantial number of such reforms entail better management of public spending, therefore facilitating sound fiscal policies. It is impressive to see the difference in terms of public spending, as a proportion of GDP, between the economies that have implemented comprehensive structural reforms -- and they are posting low public spending -- and those economies that have been less effective in the realm of reform, with high public spending. 

Structural reforms that help contain public spending and accelerate growth also facilitate compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. The Pact is fundamental within the Economic and Monetary Union, because it guarantees the cohesion of the single currency area in the absence of a fully-fledged political federation and, therefore, of a significant federal budget. Measures that permit the effective implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact are more important than ever, and will contribute to improving confidence, to growth and to job creation. 

--- 

Mr. Trichet is president of the European Central Bank. 

Document J000000020050224e12o00020


More Like This

 Article 443 *******************    



Inside Wall Street

Small Eyes That Are Starting To See a Bigger Future 

By Gene G. Marcial 
Gene Marcial's Inside Wall Street is posted at businessweek.com/today.htm at 5 p.m. EST on the mag 
301 words 
7 March 2005
BusinessWeek
120
Volume 3923
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Tiny Microvision (MVIS) IS FINDING LARGER takers for its minute scanners. Johnson & Johnson's Ethicon Endo Surgery unit, a leader in endoscopic instruments, just signed an $11.7 million deal with Microvision to develop a laser scanner installed at the end of a probe used in endoscopic surgery. CEO Ric Rutkowski says Microvision's mini laser eye emits bright color and sharp images projected on a screen. He says the J&J pact will give Microvision $6.2 million for a prototype and the remaining $5.5 million upon approval. James Fitzpatrick, founder of Princeton Capital Management, which owns shares, says he is impressed by the company's tiny scanners and its partnering with such customers as the U.S. Army, J&J, Canon, and Honda. And Microvision, now at 5.15 a share, has a hidden asset: It owns 33% of Lumera, a designer of molecular structures and polymer compounds for nanotechnology uses. 

Based on Lumera's (LMRA) stock price of 6, the stake is worth about $32.4 million, or 1.50 a share in Microvision stock, figures Rutkowski. He sees Microvision in the black in 2006 on sharply higher sales. In 2005 the company will show a loss, but analysts see sales of over $20 million vs. 2004's $11 million. 

Note: Unless otherwise noted, neither the sources cited in Inside Wall Street nor their firms hold positions in the stocks under discussion. Similarly, they have no investment banking or other financial relationships with them. 

illustration | Illustration: Chart: MORE NOTICE, HIGHER PRICE? CHARTS BY ERIC HOFFMANN/BW 


Document BW00000020050303e13700005


More Like This

 Article 444 *******************    



Readers Report

Nanotechnology's Obstacles Are Tremendous 

Staff 
348 words 
7 March 2005
BusinessWeek
20
Volume 3923
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Nanotechnology promises to usher in the next Industrial Revolution and replace our entire manufacturing base with a new, radically precise, less expensive, and more flexible way of making products (``The business of nanotech,'' Cover Story, Feb. 14). Yet the future of nanotechnology will rely first and foremost on creating the instruments, metrology devices, and tools (e.g., scanning probe microscopes, dip-pen lithography, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, etc.) that will enable us to effectively position molecules and build complex structures with automatically precise control (through top-down fabrication methods or bottom-up assembly techniques). 

Every aspect of basic nanoscale science and the commercial production of nanotechnologies will depend on the capacity of these ``picks and shovels'' to measure, sense, fabricate, and manipulate matter at the molecular level. 

Noel H. Nevshehir 

Society of Manufacturing Engineers 

Dearborn, Mich. 

You suggest that carbon nanotubes show potential for hydrogen storage, thus improving the odds that hydrogen fuel cells could replace fossil-fuel engines. The development of sophisticated means for fuel storage of hydrogen does not solve the main problem of the present uneconomic cost of producing hydrogen for the fuel cell. As it stands, the use of the chemical hydrogen for fueling the fuel cell utilizes more energy in its extraction from natural gas than is derived from burning it to power the fuel cell in motor vehicles. That makes fuel-cell-powered cars a form of economic science fiction for the very long-term future, if not forever. 

Michael Zelvin 

New York 

One of the largest challenges facing nanotechnology today is the lack of a business model to treat new materials as something other than commodities. Over the past century conventional materials prices have fallen relative to other goods, thus nanomaterials are often asked to compete with conventionally produced materials at costs that are lower by orders of magnitude. It can be a very different hurdle for a nanomaterials producer to demonstrate that a new quantum material may offer performance gains sufficient to compete with existing products. 

Samuel Brauer 

Nanotech Plus 

Stamford, Conn. 

Document BW00000020050303e1370000l


More Like This

 Article 445 *******************    



BusinessWeek International Editions: Readers Rep

How To Harness The Power Of Nanotechnology

Staff 
161 words 
7 March 2005
BusinessWeek
9
Volume 3923
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Your useful review of nanotechnology rightly identifies the potential impact on materials with applications in a variety of sectors (``The business of nanotech'' Cover Story, Feb. 14). However, it omits consideration of the impact on developing countries. Modern information and communications technologies promised a knowledge-intensive world for all, but they have created a digital divide of the knowledge-rich and knowledge-poor. 

To avoid the ``nano divide,'' one way might be to adopt a pro-poor business approach that seeks to achieve wider social and environmental goals (e.g., clean water for the 1.1 billion who have no access to this very basic right). We are currently engaged in public dialogues about nanotechnologies in an attempt to improve the social sensitivity of the innovation process at the design stage. Contributions from your corporate readers would be welcome. 

David J. Grimshaw 

Intermediate Technology Development Group 

Rugby, England 

Document BW00000020050303e1370000n


More Like This

 Article 446 *******************    



Investors Gain More Confidence In Start-Up Firms 

By Mark Boslet Dow Jones Newswires 
924 words 
23 March 2005
The Wall Street Journal
B3C
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

PALO ALTO, Calif. -- From his sunny offices on Silicon Valley's Sand Hill Road, Ryan Floyd once again is finding irresistible investment opportunities as he sorts through the business plans of start-up companies. 

There is promise in semiconductors for DVD players, television screens using low-power OLED, or organic light-emitting diodes, and devices that turn video into computer-ready digital signals, says the general partner of Storm Ventures LLC. 

In 2004, Storm Ventures made five investments in early-stage companies. It should complete five to seven more deals this year. "We're doing a lot of early-stage investing," says Mr. Floyd, also a firm co-founder. So, too, are many of his colleagues whose offices dot this leafy artery of the valley's venture-capital industry. 

After several cautious years, venture-capital firms appear ready again to take greater investment risk. Many say the industry is finally turning a corner. For four years, as they cleaned up the mess of the collapsed stock-market bubble, venture capitalists held off placing money into a new wave of early- and seed-stage companies, those firms in the beginning steps of development. Now their confidence is up. So is their fund-raising. Last year, the first since 2001 to see an increase, 58% of the 170 funds that brought $17.6 billion into the business are earmarked to invest in start-up companies, according to the National Venture Capital Association and Thomson Venture Economics. 

The new money adds up to $9.2 billion, up from $4 billion in 2003. Among the big names putting new funds to work are Benchmark Capital, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, Accel Partners and U.S. Venture Partners. The result could be the first meaningful upswing in early-stage venture investing since the dot-com era of big spending and went bust. 

"I think we're at a great part of the cycle," says Shanda Bahles, general partner at Silicon Valley firm El Dorado Ventures, which announced a $200 million early-stage fund on March 3. "It's a very good point in time." 

Venture capitalists say the coming cycle will benefit from the lessons of the Internet era. Investors seem to be more realistic in their expectations and the technologies they believe will prosper. Few seem excited by dot-coms. Ms. Bahles says she is interested in chip-making plans using new materials made possible by breakthroughs in nanotechnology and in software for chip design. She also is intrigued by new software made to be rented over the Internet. 

The reasons for the new early-stage focus are varied. Venture capitalists are encouraged by last year's stronger market for initial public offerings and by the increasing number of acquisitions of venture-backed companies. Investments once again are beginning to show a payback. 

At the same time, seasoned entrepreneurs, who stayed on the sidelines during the downturn, are back on the field, starting new companies with interesting technology. Videogame pioneer Trip Hawkins, for instance, founded Digital Chocolate Inc., a developer of games and other software for cellular phones. 

Ms. Bahles says she was drawn to Inside Track Learning Inc. of San Francisco, where El Dorado placed $4 million in July 2004, because of experienced entrepreneurs, including Chief Executive Alan Tripp. 

The early signs of an upswing already are visible. Investments in emerging companies rose to 661 in 2004 from a postdot-com bubble low-water mark in 2003, when only 601 seed and first-round companies were funded, according to data from Ernst & Young and VentureOne, a unit of Dow Jones & Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal. While a seed investment usually is made before a company has a product, first-round funding lets a firm take its product to market. 

That amounted to about 33% of all companies in 2004 compared with 30% in 2003. Some say the increase would be greater if not for a rise in the companies operating in stealth mode, which aren't reported to the statistics firms. 

At Storm, for instance, partners continue to shield a start-up company they funded last summer that is working on a combination software and hardware product for the business market. A second stealth company received money in the fourth quarter to develop a chip for the cellular handset market. 

The idea is to protect companies and product details from copycat efforts at rival venture-capital firms, Mr. Floyd says. 

Investing statistics do lag behind reality, says Paul Holland, general partner at Foundation Capital. "The people who are in the business of early-stage investing are back at work," he adds. "I think we're definitely in a big upswing of seed and early-stage investing." 

The pace is going to pick up in 2005, agrees Keith Benjamin, managing director at Levensohn Venture Partners. The money is available and interesting technology is there. "I think 2004 was the start of the new venture cycle." 

Nevertheless, many venture capitalists say the increase is likely to be gradual instead of rapid. Hans Schwarz, senior director of business development at Xilinx Inc., says he is receiving more inquires from venture capitalists interested in investing alongside his company. Xilinx looks for early-stage start-up businesses designing new chips, the equipment to make chips or the complicated software used to develop them. 

The question is whether they will have the patience for the long gestation period many of these companies will require, Mr. Schwarz says. 

Document J000000020050323e13n00002


More Like This

 Article 447 *******************    



Science & Technology: Education

Meet The Best And Brightest; Forty gifted U.S. high school science students told us what matters to them 

By Otis Port, with John Carey, in Washington 
2,643 words 
28 March 2005
BusinessWeek
88
Volume 3926
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Back in the 1980s, with the auto and electronics industries under assault from Japan, U.S. executives loudly bemoaned America's relatively poor skills in math, science, and engineering. The lament has never stopped. Despite the calls for action spanning decades, ``we still do a very, very poor job of educating our kids'' in science and math, says Craig R. Barrett, CEO of Intel Corp. Compare high school graduates in the world's top 25 countries, he says, and ``an American kid is, on average, near the bottom 10%.'' 

No quick fix will turn this situation around. But to regain a glimmer of optimism, there's nothing like a close encounter with some of America's brightest students in science and math. With Intel's consent, BusinessWeek solicited the thoughts and aspirations of the 40 finalists in the Intel Science Talent Search (STS, which was sponsored by Westinghouse before 1998). Arguably the most prestigious competition for technically inclined U.S. high school seniors, STS guarantees $5,000 college scholarships to the 40 who make it to the final round. The top three prizes are worth $100,000, $75,000, and $50,000. Past STS winners have gone on to notch six Nobel prizes, three Medal of Science awards, and 10 MacArthur Foundation ``genius grants.'' 

A sample of 40 exceptional students -- 10 of whom got perfect scores on their SATs -- can't capture the talents or attitudes of all 1,600 students who entered the competition. It's an even blurrier reflection of all the high schoolers around the country who seriously pursue science. But the sample does show what's possible when gifted kids are nurtured by caring parents, challenged by high expectations in school, encouraged to explore what interests them, and given a chance to work with mentors at universities and U.S. national laboratories. And by surveying the finalists, BusinessWeek was able to glimpse how top-performing students would shape government science policies if they were handed the opportunity. 

The projects that won recognition for the STS finalists, aged 16 to 18, cover a remarkable swath, from archeological fieldwork to the social sciences. Albert Tsao from Silver Spring, Md., developed a potential fiber-optic transistor for superfast optical computers. Aaron S. Goldin in Encinitas, Calif., created a prototype wave-powered generator. And Kelley Harris from Sacramento studied molecular interactions that could lead to new strategies against smallpox -- her project won third place. 

Two students worked with the atom smashers at Brookhaven National Laboratory and Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory: Shan Yuan ``Ben'' Huang of Coram, N.Y., and Timothy F. Credo from Highland Park, Ill. Credo's software for a new particle detector at FermiLab earned the No. 2 award. And the grand prize went to David L.V. Bauer of New York City. He developed a sensor, including a nanoscale component, designed to detect exposure to all the main neurotoxins that America's foes might be likely to deploy. 

While the students' accomplishments are cause for celebration, there's no question the U.S. is at a crossroads today, facing a challenge more threatening than Japan's industrial onslaught in the 1980s. When that threat emerged, the U.S. marshaled its resources, matched Japan in quality, called up its reserves of ingenuity, and stemmed losses in market share. 

THE PRESSURE'S ON 

This time around, as competitive pressure mounts from China, India, and other emerging economies, America's greatest vulnerability is internal. It's the institutions the U.S. depends on to educate its children. Unless this vulnerability is addressed, declares a chorus of prominent scientists, educators, and businesspeople, the nation's hopes for sustained prosperity could be dashed. Without a technically skilled workforce, U.S. business ``won't be able to compete globally,'' says John Engler, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. 

Some of the data on this topic keep getting gloomier. Last December's report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development's Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), for example, ranked the math skills of U.S. 15-year-olds 24th among the 29 OECD countries. Just three years ago, PISA put the U.S. at No. 18. 

Such test scores don't tell the whole story, though. Ask students born in Asia what they've gained from a U.S. education, and the answer is unanimous: creative thinking skills. U.S. schools -- good ones, anyway -- expand the ways kids think about problems. And that, they agree, is the secret of U.S. invention and innovation. 

Company execs contemplating recruitment can only wish for more students like the STS winners and finalists. In the past, business has counted on an influx of foreign talent to compensate for shortfalls. ``But I don't think we can continue to rely on that,'' says Joseph A. Miller, chief technology officer at Corning Inc. ``The competition for talent has increased substantially worldwide,'' he explains. ``To continue to innovate as a nation, we need to ensure that we'll have a domestic source of people well prepared in science, engineering, and math.'' 

Education also tops the list of the Innovation Policy Agenda, presented earlier this month to Washington officials by TechNet, a bipartisan club of 150 top executives in the high-tech sector. TechNet convened a series of summits around the country last year and came to a grim conclusion: The U.S. has been chiseling away at its competitiveness for so long that it could soon crumble. ``Just because we led before doesn't mean we'll lead in the future,'' warns John T. Chambers, CEO of Cisco Systems Inc. and co-founder of TechNet. 

Largely, that's because the U.S. isn't planting enough new seeds of invention and innovation. ``After education, our No. 2 problem is spending on basic research,'' declares Intel's Barrett. As a percentage of gross domestic product, federal support of basic research in the physical sciences has actually declined by more than one-third over the past 25 years. Now the Bush Administration wants to cut the National Science Foundation's budget by 10%. Instead, says Barrett, the NSF's budget ought to double over the next five years, just as the National Institutes of Health's budget has doubled over the past five years. 

LESS BANG, MORE BUCKS 

The STS finalists for the most part agree that Washington should support more research. This was one issue raised in both the opinion survey (opposite) and roundtable discussions BusinessWeek conducted with the finalists in Washington just before the winners were announced. More federal money for research on alternative energy was the students' chief priority, followed by medicine and health care, the environment, and biotechnology. 

Asked how they would pay for the additional research, the two top recommendations were to shift money from the Defense Dept. (after the U.S. pulls out of Iraq and Afghanistan) and raise taxes on the wealthy, on energy companies, and on big polluters. Next came trimming Social Security and welfare benefits. 

All 40 students are either ``very much'' or ``somewhat'' in favor of developing alternative energy sources -- the only issue on the poll without a single dissenter. ``But this doesn't seem to be a very big issue for the politicians right now,'' notes Bruce X. Brewington of Fairport, N.Y. That's probably due to a lack of public pressure, says Stephen J. DeVience of Chicago. ``People seem to complacently believe that engineers will find solutions in time to avert a crisis.'' 

U.S. energy policy is too focused on traditional fossil fuels, assert several students. ``These policies paralyze us from taking the lead in alternative energy solutions,'' says Aaron Goldin. Ailish E. Bateman in Sag Harbor, N.Y., agrees. ``Striving to maintain yesterday's status quo,'' she says, ``just tilts world politics more steeply. Even rumors of an oil cutback send stocks tumbling.'' Ian R. Haken of Plano, Tex., thinks the government should start making changes now, ``even if they go against the public will.'' Personally, he adds, ``I'm in favor of electric cars that would be charged with electricity produced by nuclear power.'' 

Nuclear energy was a divisive topic at the roundtables. Several students fear another accident like the 1986 explosion at Chernobyl in Ukraine. They also cite the problem of radioactive waste. Among those on the other side, Robert T. Cordwell from Albuquerque pointed out that burning coal ``actually produces more radioactive waste -- and spreads it around more,'' whereas nuclear fuel can be recycled. None of the skeptics was persuaded, although Amber I. Hess of Carmel, Calif., said more of such statistics would be ``really useful'' for an informed debate. 

On the education front, the STS students have many ideas for improvement. Several feel that Americans' disinclination to plunge into science and technology traces back to early childhood. ``The motivation to learn can be inspired only in elementary school,'' says Michael A. Forbes from Silver Spring. Starting even earlier would be better, says top-prize-winner Bauer. ``Studies have shown that patterns for learning are set by the age of four,'' he notes. ``This means we need to provide preschool, not day care, for three- and four-year-olds.'' 

Another recommendation is to introduce youngsters to tougher math earlier in life, as do some countries that perform better on international assessments like PISA. Michael J. Barany from Falcon Heights, Minn., points to math textbooks in Singapore. ``Their sixth graders are routinely asked to do stuff that I didn't encounter until the seventh grade, and I'm ahead of the American curve.'' 

But what really troubles these students is the standardized testing used increasingly to measure school performance. Teachers spend way too much time ``getting students to do well on these tests,'' notes Tsao. The result is a dumbing-down that deemphasizes learning and exploration in favor of focused training for taking the tests. It's a huge turn-off for above-average kids, say these students. 

Asked to comment on the issue of women in science -- a contentious topic in the wake of remarks by Harvard University President Lawrence H. Summers about gender disparities -- some finalists noted that middle school is the pivotal time for females. Studies show that in elementary school, girls are at least as interested in, and as good at, science and math as are boys. But social conditioning, especially by teachers and peers, during the early teenage years changes that, says Po-Ling Loh from Madison, Wis. Girls should be encouraged to ignore chiding about math and science being ``too geeky'' for a girl, she says. Summers needs to take another look at gender differences, suggests Ling Pan of New York City. More women scientists would enhance competitiveness, she asserts, because there is evidence that ``women are better at multitasking and making connections across disciplines, while men are better at focusing on one discipline.'' 

Some of the schools represented at the Intel event have amazing success records in repeatedly sending students to STS and similar competitions. For example, five STS finalists this year hail from Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, Md. Noting that fact, students suggested that there are concrete steps leading to successful programs in science, and that these steps could be implemented more broadly in different schools. 

After all, most children aren't math wizards, any more than they're musical prodigies. But that doesn't mean mediocre performance is destiny. Schools need to foster more interest in science in the lower grades. And middle-school teachers should toss tougher challenges at girls, in particular. Greater emphasis should also be placed on mentors, the students say, with colleges expanding outreach programs; and high schools with no nearby university could form volunteer mentoring clubs staffed with their best students and parents. 

Ultimately, America's educational system needs to pay as much attention to bright students as it does to slow learners. That would give more U.S. kids a better chance to stand tall in international comparisons. And it just might help counteract the scientific illiteracy that threatens to drag down the performance of American businesses. 


 First Place: David L.V. Bauer

 Hunter College High School, New York City

 AGE: 17
 AMBITION: Chemistry professor
 PROJECT (Materials Science): Developed a nano-scale biosensor for detecting neurotoxins. His system is designed to quickly identify the presence of all major nerve gases and agents.




  


Second Place: Timothy F. Credo
 Illinois Mathematics & Science Academy, Aurora, Ill.
AGE: 17
          AMBITION: University professor
          PROJECT (Engineering): Wrote the software for, and helped develop, a fast, accurate detector for subatomic particles at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
  


 Third Place: Kelley Harris

 C.K. McClatchy High School, Sacramento

 AGE: 17
 AMBITION: Biophysics professor
 PROJECT (Biochemistry): Identified molecular interactions between so-called Z-form DNA and relatively unknown proteins that bind to it. She hopes the work might lead to new strategies against smallpox.




  


Opinion Poll
 BusinessWeek asked the 40 finalists in the Intel Science Talent Search for their opinions on a variety of front-burner issues in science, business, and government. Among the clear patterns that emerged: More than half of the students are deeply troubled by global poverty, the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and the potential negative impact of Bush Administration policies on science and the environment.Three-quarters of the finalists strongly support stem-cell research (only one doesn't support it at all). And all but three expressed very strong support for the development of alternative energy sources. Here are the salient results:

 Their Worries...

 HOW DISTURBED ARE YOU BY:

                                                                                                     VERY NOT
                                                                                                     MUCH SOMEWHAT AT ALL

 Technology's erosion of privacy                                                                     9    26       4
 Greed among corporate executives                                                                    14   22       4
 Ruthless business practices                                                                         15   22       3
 Business globalization                                                                              3    18       19
 Influence of money on politics                                                                      22   16       1
 Bush Administration policies in general                                                             19   15       2
 Negative effects on science                                                                         27   9        3
 Negative effects on the environment                                                                 24   11       4
 Decision on stem-cell research                                                                      26   12       2
 Level of U.S. health care                                                                           17   15       7
 Disease in Africa and the tropics                                                                   20   17       3
 World population growth                                                                             11   19       10
 Poverty -- domestic                                                                                 15   21       4
 Poverty -- worldwide                                                                                25   12       3
 Global warming                                                                                      8    26       5
 Environmental degradation                                                                           18   20       2
 Poor grades of U.S. schools                                                                         22   15       3
 Bio/chemical terrorism                                                                              9    22       8
 Infrastructure attacks via the Net                                                                  7    25       8
 Erosion of U.S. manufacturing base                                                                  5    25       10
 Slow progress of alternative energy                                                                 24   12       4


 ...And Their Priorities

 HOW SUPPORTIVE ARE YOU OF:

                                                                                                     VERY NOT
                                                                                                     MUCH SOMEWHAT AT ALL

 Cloning animals                                                                                     15   18       5
 Cloning humans                                                                                      4    17       17
 Genetically modified foods/plants                                                                   16   20       3
 Stem-cell research                                                                                  30   8        1
 Developing alternative energy sources                                                               37   3        0
 Environmental protection                                                                            28   9        2
 Sustainable development                                                                             27   10       2
 Space colonies on the moon and Mars                                                                 10   21       9
 Space travel to other solar systems                                                                 14   19       7
 Space tourism (SpaceShipOne)                                                                        14   15       11
 More federal R&D funding for:
 Alternative energy sources                                                                          32   6        2
 Biotechnology                                                                                       26   9        5
 Computer science and engineering                                                                    19   18       3
 Environmental protection                                                                            27   9        4
 Manufacturing science                                                                               16   16       8
 Mathematics                                                                                         15   21       4
 Medicine and health care                                                                            30   9        1
 Nanotechnology                                                                                      21   16       3
 Physics and chemistry                                                                               23   14       3
 Sustainable development                                                                             21   16       1
Responses don't total 40 on all lines, indicating that one or more finalists
          had no opinion
  

photograph | Photograph: SMART COOKIES Some of the finalists in the Intel Science Talent Search. Back row, from left: Ling Pan, Albert Tsao, James Cahill, Aaron Goldin, and Karl Plank. Front row: Neal Wadhwa, Ryan Harrison, grand-prize winner David Bauer, Sarah Langberg, and Po-Ling Loh PHOTOGRAPH BY CASABURI.COM 


Document BW00000020050328e13s0000z


More Like This

 Article 448 *******************    



Technology

Ride the Light; Tiny Luxtera's new technology works at the speed of light. 

Elizabeth Corcoran 
1,446 words 
11 April 2005
Forbes
68
Volume 175 Issue 7
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

Teaching silicon new photonic tricks promises a huge boost in getting data out of a computer 

In his lab at Sun Microsystems' San Diego Physical Sciences Center, Ashok Krishnamoorthy is surrounded by big numbers: looming powerful computers that can crank through a trillion operations per second. But what commands his attention these days is something very small: a prototype silicon chip, only a few millimeters on a side, that works like a magic gateway between muscle-bound computers. 

Although still a hatchling, this so-called silicon photonic chip, devised by a Carlsbad, Calif. startup called Luxtera, could mark the beginning of a new Internet era when computers will be able to tap into huge reserves of data, no matter where they are situated, as easily as they now retrieve data from their own hard drives. "It will mean that distance truly won't matter anymore," says Arno Penzias, a Nobel laureate and one of Luxtera's venture backers. "Wherever you are, you can share in all the world's information." 

Big promises come in small packages. Luxtera's chip is neatly hidden inside a component that looks like a gold-covered mint wafer. Metal pins along three sides both secure the piece to a circuit board and deliver streams of bits to the silicon device. On the fourth side of the component is a plug that resembles a telephone jack. Krishnamoorthy slides a bundle of fiber-optic threads into the plug. One thread is attached to a laser. 

As the pins deliver bits sent from another computer, the laser pumps a steady stream of light into the chip. Inside, a modulator works like a tiny shutter, imprinting the bits onto the incoming laser light. The light signals do a victory lap in the device, then head out on a path that runs parallel to the one they came in on. The signals spill onto an optical fiber, then travel another 20 meters before reaching a detector, a chip that transforms the light signals back into electrical ones. "We've been working with Luxtera for almost a year now," says Krishnamoorthy. "I have personally tested the modulators to 10 gigabits a second." That's fast enough to send a DVD movie in four seconds. 

Silicon photonics aims to solve what has become one of the huge bottlenecks in the information age, the movement of data in and out of computers. For the past 40 years computer chips have grown faster as designers have marched steadily to the drumbeat of Moore's Law, roughly doubling the number of transistors on a swatch of silicon every two years. By shortening the distance electrons travel, they've made chips go faster. But like an automobile pulling out of the driveway, electrons that venture outside a chip must follow some path--usually copper--to reach their next destination. Intel's top-of-the-line Pentium 4 runs at 3.7 gigahertz and relies on a souped-up "bus" that is about a quarter of that speed. 

Designers have invented clever shortcuts for electrons, like Sun's recent approach for nudging separate chips closer together and zapping data between them. But radically improved performance calls for the use of photons, or particles of light, which are 250,000 times lighter than electrons and can fly in close formation, squeezing lots of data into a small space. Telephone companies spent the 1990s ripping out copper lines and replacing them with optical fiber and expensive networking gear to turn digital signals into light waves. This was never a cheap trick, though, depending on compound semiconductors such as indium phosphide and gallium arsenide, which don't enjoy the mass-manufacturing economies of silicon, the mainstay of the computing universe. 

"Silicon always wins," points out Cary Gunn, a cofounder and vice president of Luxtera. If optical devices could be built in silicon, the cost of communicating data would fall. 

Silicon is finicky about light. Tickle compound semiconductors with enough electrons and they spit back photons (the telecom industry uses them for its optical magic). In the 1980s Eli Yablonovitch, now a professor at UCLA, invented something called photonic crystals, which manipulate light much like transistors shuffle electrons around. Key to building useful photonic crystals, however, was carving tiny structures into semiconductors. 

In the late 1990s, after nine years in the Air Force, Gunn wound up in graduate school at the California Institute of Technology working with Axel Scherer, one of the world's experts in building very tiny electronic and photonic structures. By then the enormous manufacturing muscle of the silicon chip industry had pushed the size of key chip components down to roughly 100 nanometers--a quarter of the wavelength of infrared light, which is widely used by the telecom industry. Only at these tiny dimensions can engineers manipulate the electrons buzzing within silicon to change its photonic properties. "That turned the corner," says Yablonovitch, who cofounded Luxtera with Gunn and Scherer. The challenge was to train silicon to modulate laser light fast enough to keep up with the data pouring in from computers. 

Scores of inventions had to fall into place. (All told, Luxtera has filed for more than 75 patents; 15 have been issued so far.) The central idea of the modulator depends on the fact that light travels at different speeds through different materials. (Put a pencil in a glass of water and the pencil looks bent because light travels more slowly through water than through air.) Light traveling through silicon usually moves only a third as fast as it would in a vacuum. At the nanoscale level, Luxtera engineers figured out how to tune silicon by applying voltage and thus make light move more sluggishly. 

Within the Luxtera chip, light is split along two paths, and the twin beams are nudged out of synch with each other by the modulator, acting upon incoming data. When the beams recombine, they either make a bigger wave or cancel each other out. This way the modulator stamps data onto the light. 

Figuring out how to funnel as much light as possible from a laser into the tiny modulator structure is another part of Luxtera's secret sauce. The company also saved enormous trial-and-error time by using a complex modeling program built by two Caltech undergraduates that simulates how light and electrons interact in three dimensions. (They sold it to Luxtera in exchange for founder's equity.) 

The timing of the telecom bust helped, too. In November 2001 Luxtera's venture capitalist tapped chip industry veterans, including Alexander Dickinson, who got his start with optical devices at Bell Labs. Minutes after Dickinson signed the papers that gave Luxtera $7 million in seed capital, Gunn bought $2 million worth of test equipment for $200,000 in a fire-sale auction at Nortel. Since then Luxtera has raised another $24 million in venture funding. 

That 10 gigabits a second is only a starting point, says Dickinson. Adding light signals of different wavelengths, like creating extra channels, will multiply performance. Shrinking component sizes will also speed the modulator. 

Intel researchers are working feverishly on their own silicon photonic components, including modulators, which operate at 4 gigabits a second. Those could be commercial devices by the end of the decade. Last December the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency kicked off a four-year program to build integrated electronic-photonic devices. "This is potentially a very disruptive technology," says Jagdeep Shah, who manages the Darpa program. "We're sort of like at the early stage of integrated circuits." 

Essential to holding down costs is using the same manufacturing tools and factories used to make cheap PC chips. Luxtera is relying on Freescale Semiconductor to build its chips, and in the past 12 months Freescale has been sliding Luxtera's designs right into the standard manufacturing line for the PowerPC chips that go into a range of devices, including Apple computers. David Mothersole, chief technology officer of Freescale's networking business, expects to be making samples for Luxtera's first customers by the end of this year. Although the startup plans to make money by selling its chips to computer systems manufacturers, its director of marketing, Gabriele Sartori, is a staunch advocate of spreading the new technology through licensing. 

Luxtera's growing fan club also includes Michael Fister, formerly with Intel and now chief executive of Cadence Design Systems, the leading maker of chip-design software tools. "Demand for high-speed interconnects is strong," he says. "There's good reason to be intrigued with this technology, and Luxtera is definitely worth watching." 

Document FB00000020050328e14b0000k


More Like This

 Article 449 *******************    



Developments to Watch: NANOTECHNOLOGY

How Many Zeptograms Does That Thing Weigh? 

By Burt Helm 
138 words 
11 April 2005
BusinessWeek
95
Volume 3928
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

A tuning fork's pitch depends on the size of its tines. With really tiny tines, you can figuratively play molecular music -- as a team from the California Institute of Technology has done. Physicist Jack Ya-Tang Yang told the APS meeting that the team has weighed an extremely small mass -- just a few dozen xenon atoms -- spraying them on silicon-carbide tines a mere 100 nanometers long. The added weight noticeably slows the tines' vibrations, and the mass that was applied is then calculated from the frequency change. So how few atoms can the tuning fork weigh? About 30, or a mass of seven zeptograms (seven trillionths of a nanogram). Detecting such minuscule quantities is essential for drug research, toxin detection, and more. 

Document BW00000020050407e14b0000r


More Like This

 Article 450 *******************    



News: Analysis & Commentary: BIOTECH

DRAWING A BEAD ON SIDE EFFECTS; Drugmakers are figuring out ways to make some old remedies safer 

By Arlene Weintraub in New York, with Michael Arndt in Chicago 
1,055 words 
11 April 2005
BusinessWeek
42
Volume 3928
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

In her 14-year fight against breast cancer, Janet Powell has become all too familiar with the foul side effects of chemotherapy. Treatments left her wracked with nausea, hot flashes, and uncontrollable tingling in her hands and feet. Powell's only relief came in 2002, when she enrolled in a clinical trial of Abraxane, a drug derived from a popular chemo treatment but reengineered to cause fewer side effects. ``All of a sudden I started feeling really good,'' says Powell, a 57-year-old secretary in Greenville, Tex. ``I almost forgot I had cancer.'' 

Abraxane, approved by the Food & Drug Administration in January, is part of a growing class of drugs designed to improve on flawed, older ones. American Pharmaceutical Partners Inc. (APP) created it by reformulating Taxol, a 13-year-old chemo drug, to remove the ingredient that makes patients feel sick. 

The battle against harmful side effects is emerging as a promising new frontier for the drug industry. Some companies, like APP, aim to remove noxious chemicals. Others hope to salvage bad drugs by improving the way the body digests them. Yet others use what they have learned about side effects to overhaul their development process. Together, these strategies could resurrect hundreds of pharmaceutical flameouts -- drugs that were pulled from the market, or never made it out of the lab because of adverse reactions. 

There couldn't be a better time for companies to zero in on drug side effects. Ever since Merck & Co. withdrew Vioxx last year, the pharmaceutical industry has been pelted with one safety concern after another. The latest: On Mar. 25, Abbott Laboratories said it would stop selling a 30-year-old drug called Cylert that can cause fatal liver problems. 

An Abbott spokeswoman says the company will discontinue Cylert, used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, because of declining sales. But the withdrawal came just days after a consumer group petitioned the FDA to pull it. Now, Johnson & Johnson is facing questions about one of its fast-growing cardiac treatments (page 44). All told, the FDA has issued 23 safety alerts this year -- three times as many as it put out by this time last year. 

The number of such warnings would fall dramatically if side effects could be engineered out. And that challenge has inspired some ingenious approaches. For example, ARYx Therapeutics Inc. in Santa Clara, Calif., is trying to correct flaws in the way some drugs are broken down in the liver. Its first target is Propulsid, an acid-reflux treatment that J&J pulled in 2000. 

It turns out that when patients ingested Propulsid along with certain other drugs, the combination depleted the supply of an important but rare enzyme in the liver that breaks down the drug. So too much Propulsid passed into the blood, where it touched off other problems: It blocked the flow of potassium to the heart, causing irregular, potentially fatal heartbeats. By redesigning one section of the Propulsid molecule, ARYx created a drug that fights acid reflux, bypasses the problematic enzyme, and causes no heart risk. The drug is still in mid-stage trials, but if it works, the market potential could be huge: Propulsid hit nearly $1 billion in annual sales before it was yanked. 

COMPARING GENES 

As pharmaceutical companies decode the secrets of side effects, they're using that knowledge to design safer drugs from the get-go. At Merck, scientists are collecting data about patterns of genes that become active or inactive when drugs cause serious effects. The database helps them to flag new molecules that cause similar genetic patterns, allowing them to throw out potentially harmful compounds. And a handful of pharma companies has licensed a screening system developed by the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in San Diego. The test pinpoints drugs likely to trip a potentially lethal chain of events, in which the body flushes out other drugs the patient is taking before they can work. 

Despite the promise of such tools, getting reformulated drugs to market will require more than technical prowess. Some enterprising drug designers may be blocked by broad patents that other pharma companies hold. Then there's the regulatory minefield. Even though the drugs are based on existing treatments, no one can predict whether the reformulations will work until they undergo years of human testing. 

With so many reformulated drugs still unproven, all eyes are on the recent O.K. for APP's Abraxane. The compound is designed to fix a core problem with Taxol: Before it can be injected into patients, it must be dissolved in a solvent so noxious it can cause life-threatening allergic reactions. Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, founder and chairman of the Schaumburg (Ill.) biotech, figured out how to replace the solvent with nanoparticles of human protein, each one-hundredth the size of a red blood cell, that envelop the drug and deliver it straight to tumors. The protein, albumin, normally carries nutrients to tumors that help them to grow. ``We're tricking the tumor into believing it's eating a nutrient, when in fact it's getting the drug,'' Soon-Shiong explains. 

Several cancer centers are now testing Abraxane to see if the gentler formulation will save lives by allowing doctors to deliver higher doses of chemo over shorter periods of time. And APP hopes to apply its technology to other cancer treatments on the market, as well as some that never made it into human testing because no one could figure out how to dissolve them. Abraxane could bring in sales of up to $155 million this year and grow 40% annually for the next several years, analysts estimate. As more and more patients find their lives threatened by treatments that were supposed to save them, companies that blaze new pathways to safety will be richly rewarded. 


 THE STAT

 23

 Drug-safety alerts issued by the FDA so far this year, up from seven by this time last year.

 Data: Food & Drug Administration

   

photograph | Photograph: POWELL ``All of a sudden I started feeling really good. I almost forgot I had cancer'' PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES FORD 


Document BW00000020050407e14b0001t


More Like This

 Article 451 *******************    



Science & Technology: Nanotech

The Coming Chip Revolution; Facing the limits of silicon, scientists are turning to carbon nanotubes

By Adam Aston in New York 
1,670 words 
18 April 2005
BusinessWeek
90
Volume 3929
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

IN A DIMLY LIT LAB IN YORKTOWN Heights, N.Y., the workbenches are crowded with scanning-tunneling microscopes, atomic force probes, and an assortment of other tools used to render the molecular world visible. There, at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Phaedon Avouris and his team are using these instruments to conquer the Everest of nanotechnology: They're learning how to weave wisps of carbon, atom by atom, into working transistors. 

Avouris' aim is to outrun a ticking clock. Since the dawn of the semiconductor industry a half-century ago, computer companies have depended on chipmakers to keep Moore's Law on track, doubling the speed of their devices every 18 months. The chipmakers achieved this magic by packing transistors more closely together on ever-shrinking flecks of silicon. Tinier transistors run faster. But the chips also run hotter, and they become much more complicated to produce. As chip features shrink from 90 nanometers today toward 20 nm or 10 nm over the next decade, the burdens of heat, cost, and unruly physics could render silicon useless. If the industry doesn't find an alternative, Moore's Law will hit a brick wall. 

EFFICIENT REPLACEMENT 

THE PROBLEMS ARE already taking a toll. Today's fastest PC chips run hot enough to cook an egg. If unchecked, the increase in heat is on track to hit metal-melting temperatures by decade's end. That not only wastes power -- as much as half the power consumed by today's fastest processors may be lost as heat -- but can also slow down or even damage a chip. And due to the increasing complexity of the fabrication process, the price tag of a single semiconductor factory, or fab, could hit $10 billion by the decade's end, up from $2 billion today. ``Chipmakers have to get away from multibillion-dollar fabs,'' says Sam Brauer, a principal at Nanotech Plus LLC, a market consultant in Stamford, Conn. ``It's their Holy Grail.'' 

At IBM, Infineon, NEC, and a clutch of startups, the leading candidate to replace silicon is the ethereal carbon nanotube. This tiny molecule -- 100,000 lined up side by side are about as thick as a human hair -- promises to make circuits faster, less power-hungry, and more densely packed than anything possible today. And they could vastly simplify the way chips are made. 

Even though such transistors are still in their infancy, says IBM's Avouris, ``Carbon nanotubes can get around most of the problems that doom very small silicon devices.'' In the lab, he has backed this statement up. It took him four years to assemble his current, third-generation prototype of a carbon nanotube transistor, but in the end, the device can carry up to 1,000 times the current of the copper wires used in today's silicon chips, making it vastly more efficient. 

The nanotubes themselves are deceptively simple. Joined in superstrong hexagonal bonds, carbon atoms arrange themselves in a cylinder, like a coil of chicken wire. By changing the geometry of the tube's honeycomb of atoms, researchers can tune them to resist or conduct electricity, which is one reason they can carry very high currents while emitting little heat. ``Mixing together nanotubes with different electrical properties could simplify the design of future chips,'' says Paolo A. Gargini, chairman of the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors, an industry planning consortium, and Intel Corp.'s director of technology strategy. It would eliminate many of the exotic chemicals and processes now used to make chips. 

The virtues of nanotubes go beyond electricity. In addition to being excellent conductors of heat, the tubes are 10 times stronger than steel and are resistant to radiation. This matters because as chips get smaller, they are becoming more vulnerable to damage from high-energy solar particles. So, long before they replace transistors as the brains of chips, says Craig Sander, Advanced Micro Devices' vice-president for technical development, carbon nanotubes are likely to be mixed in as part of the chip's structural layer. 

TRICKY PHYSICS 

FOR ALL THEIR PROMISE, nanotubes face huge challenges going from lab to fab. Current production techniques yield a stew of more than 30 varieties of nanotubes, points out Tim Gierke, a nanotechnology researcher at DuPont. Some players, such as Houston's Carbon Nanotechnologies Inc., are striving to refine their production recipes to make more of the most desirable variety. DuPont, meanwhile, is working on tools to sort tubes by their size and electrical properties. 

Even with a reliable supply of tubes, scaling up production to supply a vast global industry will take years. Researchers at both IBM and Infineon have built nanotube transistors with electrical properties far superior to those of silicon. But today's most powerful processors have a billion transistors each. Scientists have no idea how to match the enormous efficiency of today's manufacturing methods, says Gargini. 

What nobody disputes is that the existing recipe for making silicon chips is already running into trouble. Circuits work a little like garden hoses: When you make a hose narrower, you have to increase the water pressure to get the same volume through it. Likewise, chipmakers have had to boost the voltage on the chips so that more current can pass through smaller circuit lines. At the same time, chips are getting ``leakier,'' like a hose riddled with pinpricks. There are simply fewer atoms in the chips' insulation layers to keep electrons from tunneling through. 

Other problems are surfacing, too. Once-inconsequential variations among the millions of transistors on a chip begin to matter at smaller dimensions. On a Pentium 3, circa 2003, with circuit lines a generous 180 nanometers wide, a 20-nm defect was nothing to worry about. But at today's 90-nm standard, such a flaw can render a transistor useless. ``The hell of nanoscale physics'' is how Hugo De Man, a senior researcher at Belgium's Interuniversity Microelectronics Center, describes the fast-multiplying challenges chipmakers face. 

What's more, the tricky physics is driving up the cost for next-generation plants. Infineon Technologies' new memory-chip factory in Richmond, Va., showcases the staggering complexity -- and expense -- necessary to stay competitive. Roughly four football fields in size, the $2 billion facility is part of an elite club of chip plants that, on a per-acre basis, rank among the most costly factories ever built. 

Inside this hangar-like factory, machines build machines. Untouched by human hands for weeks, chips-in-progress pass through hundreds of processes, moving to and from dozens of million-dollar machines via a pint-size robotic monorail. The chips will travel miles in this plant before emerging, after two to three months of processing, as a commodity RAM chip, ready for your next desktop. 

Laborious as this process is, it will be hard to supplant. At the end of the day, chip quality is high. And there are ways to get around heat, such as designing better ``architectures'' -- the way transistors are organized on the chip. AMD, IBM, Intel, and others are exploring ``multicore'' processors that multiply the number of brains on a chip from one to two, and in time, to four or more. 

Whether nanotube-based chips are 10 years away or 20, experts agree the transition will be incremental. First they expect to see hybrid silicon-nanotube designs -- an approach that suits the industry's titans. With 50 years of experience in silicon, billions invested in R&D, and countless more sunk into silicon-based factory processes, chipmakers prefer enhancements to the current model, not disruptive substitutes. ``The shift has to be evolutionary,'' says George M. Scalise, president of the Semiconductor Industry Assn. 

Silicon-carbon hybrids are part of that trend. Nantero Inc., a Woburn (Mass.)-based startup, is working with LSI Logic Corp. to make nanotube RAM using existing silicon processes. Nanotube-based memory, says Nantero CEO Greg Schmergel, is as fast and dense as the RAM now used in computers but can maintain data without power, like the more costly flash memory used in digital cameras. ``Imagine booting up your PC instantly or replacing your hard drive with much faster RAM,'' says Schmergel. 

Nantero is hoping for a major performance leap, but others are skeptical, noting that it can take 10 years to perfect even small steps forward in existing chip technologies. So for the next big leap, the industry is taking a long running start. 


How Small Is Small?
          
          Silicon chips have powered the computer age, thanks to ever-shrinking electronic circuits. But the scaling down can only continue a few more steps. After that, industry hopes are riding on carbon nanotubes:
          
          Width, nanometers
 20,000-150,000       7,000                  5,000
 Human hair has long  A dot of 50 red        Circuit lines on
 been used to explain blood cells might      Intel's 286 -- the
 the width of semi-   just be visible        first multipurpose
 conductors' smallest to the human eye.      processor for personal
 features.            computers -- were
                      roughly 55 times
                      larger than the lines
                      on today's micropro-
                      cessors.

 150                  90                     10-15
 Thousands of viruses Circuits on IBM's      When chip features
 can be packed in a   latest PowerPC chip    hit this scale, some-
 cell.                are among the smallest time around 2015, a
                      being mass produced.   combination of heat
                      and tricky quantum
                      effects will make it
                      difficult or im-
                      possible to employ
                      silicon as a substrate.

 7                    2                      1.5           0.1
 Carbon nanotube      Research into DNA      Diameter of a Hydrogen atoms
 transistors like     is shedding light      single carbon reside at the
 the one in this      on how to manipu-      nanotube.     far extreme of
 simulation by        late nanotubes.        nanoscale en-
 Infineon per-        gineering. Al-
 form well in         ready, scientists
 lab tests.           can corral indi-
                      vidual atoms into
                      simple functional
                      structures.
DATA: IBM, Infineon, The Royal Academy of Engineering (UK), The International Roadmap for Semiconductors, BW.
  

Document BW00000020050414e14i0001w


More Like This

 Article 452 *******************    



Developments to Watch: SPACE TRAVEL

NEXT BEST THING TO A STAIRWAY TO THE STARS 

Edited by Otis Port 
194 words 
18 April 2005
BusinessWeek
89
Volume 3929
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

SPURRED BY THE X Prize Foundation's $10 million purse for the first private space plane, two dozen teams invested at least $100 million trying to win the kitty. Now, NASA hopes to unleash a similar 10-to-1 spending spree for the ultimate method of getting off the Earth: a space elevator. 

Long familiar to science fiction fans, the elevator would ferry astronauts and their craft beyond the earth's gravity by climbing a cable made of strong and light carbon nanotubes at least 22,000 miles up to geosynchronous orbit. Electricity for the motors would be beamed up by laser or microwaves, since a copper cable would weigh too much. 

For this year's NASA Centennial Challenges, the strongest nanotube ribbon will be rewarded with $50,000. The same sum will go to whichever model of an energy-beam-powered robot can carry the heaviest load while climbing a 50-meter cable. Next year, NASA will boost the prizes to $100,000. Building the real thing would probably cost $10 billion over 15 years. 

Document BW00000020050414e14i00021


More Like This

 Article 453 *******************    



LEISURE & ARTS

Won't Shrink or Pill -- and Holds 50 Tons 

By Ann E. Berman 
1,080 words 
19 April 2005
The Wall Street Journal
D8
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

EXTREME TEXTILES 

Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum 

Through Oct. 30 

New York -- An exhibition devoted to "extreme" anything sounds like a crowd-pleaser and "Extreme Textiles: Designing for High Performance" at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum doesn't disappoint. A paean to the highly engineered textiles used in aerospace, medicine, sports, industry and the military, this unfocused, but entertaining show might have been subtitled "The Air and Space Museum Does New York," so crammed is it with sexy technology. 

Want to see the prototype of the airbag system for the Mars Rover, the winged suit that allowed a man to glide across the English Channel, and a polyester sling that can lift 50 tons? Come on down. Matilda McQuaid, Exhibitions Curator and the Head of Textiles at the Cooper-Hewitt has assembled these, and 140 other wonders that demonstrate the centrality of textiles to contemporary life. 

The show sets the stage for this revelation with a thumbnail exhibition of natural textiles through the ages (woven linen from fourth-century Egypt, 18th-century Spanish knitted silk, etc.) that illustrate traditional fabrication techniques -- knitting, weaving, braiding, etc. -- then brings us up to date. Thanks to polymers and other revolutionary man-made fibers, these same techniques now produce textiles that are more flexible, stronger, lighter and more versatile than ever before. Not only are these super textiles indispensable to a wide variety of technical endeavors, they may take such unusual and unexpected forms that we fail to recognize them. It takes a few minutes to realize that everything in this portion of the exhibition, including a length of knitted stainless steel, a set of precision gears and cogwheels, and a massive cross section of rope wide enough to sit on, is made of textiles. When it sinks in, it's quite a "Wow" moment that effectively makes the show's point. 

But having focused our attention on the wonders of textiles, the exhibition fails to keep it there. It's hard to tell a compelling story about an abstract, technical topic, but "Extreme Textiles" doesn't even try. The rest of the show is simply a catalog of examples, organized into categories labeled "faster," "smarter," "lighter," "stronger," and "safer" (indicating the improvements made possible by textiles) and put on display. We are given no recent historical context -- the technological revolution created by the first man-made fibers, rayon and nylon, is barely mentioned -- and the show doesn't make the human connections that would keep its message front and center. Today's super textiles have certainly facilitated missions to space, won America's Cup races and contributed to medical miracles, but we don't hear about them. The wall copy is soporific and appears to have been written for a team of engineers from Dupont ("Carbon fiber composite is formed by passing raw strands of material through a resin impregnation bath . . . "). No wonder visitors soon stop marveling that all of these futuristic prototypes, space suits, cars, boats and sporting goods are made of textiles, and start gawking at all of the cool stuff. 

Like the Skyray Rigid Wing Suit: You can strap on this baby, jump off a cliff, and soar for miles at speeds of up to 137 miles per hour. For shorter flights, there's the Atair Flexible Wing Suit that turns a human body into a combination of seabird and superglider. (A video of these two birdman outfits in action is one of the highlights of the show.) A suit made with nanotechnology -- polyethylene-oxide fibers 1/100,000 of the breadth of a human hair (illustrated here with an electrospun nanofiber mask of a human face) -- may not be as much fun, but it could come in handy some day soon. Material made with those tiny fibers can filter out harmful chemicals while allowing the wearer to breathe. Don't forget to check out the Sensewear Patch -- an unassuming adhesive strip that can upload and process information about your heart rate, temperature, and caloric intake and send it to your doctor's computer. 

Everybody loves to look at space suits, especially if they have actually been out there in the void. There are several of them here, including the pressure suit, helmet and gloves worn by Charles "Pete" Conrad aboard Skylab 2 in 1973, and the version worn by Shannon Lucid aboard the Russian Mir Space Station in 1996. Technical apparatus commonly used here on earth, but rarely seen up close -- inflatable orange oil-slick containment booms, ropes used by arborists that can slide easily over bark, giant shipping containers that can hold 4,400 pounds of almost anything -- have their own quirky appeal and, sometimes, unexpected beauty. Decorators may soon be trying to buy ten yards of Palmhive bobble camouflage net, an intricately textured fabric developed by the Brits to disguise their military equipment. 

The show's toy quotient is also blissfully high. The WilliamsF1 BMW FW 26 racing car is a testosterone-fueled dream -- your favorite Matchbox car big as life, low slung, gleaming blue and white, and ready to roll. The fiberglass Axis Recurve Bow, a traditionally shaped crossbow made out of fiberglass and used for Olympic archery tournaments, is both retro and futuristic -- something Robin Hood would use in a galaxy far, far away. The impossibly long and slim Lightweight Advantage Single Shell (a rowing scull) -- perfectly proportioned and beautifully finished with fine satin weave fabric -- is a true work of art, and not even a lengthy description of its components -- laminates and aramid fibers -- can keep you from enjoying the sight of the Vanguard Vector, a sleek racing dinghy, displayed fully rigged. 

Installation of these bulky, high-tech goodies in the dark, domestically sized spaces of the Cooper-Hewitt -- a prim Beaux Arts mansion built by Andrew Carnegie in 1902 -- was obviously a nightmare for the designers of "Extreme Textiles." (A proposed $75 million addition of 22,000 sqare feet of underground exhibition space would alleviate this problem.) Meanwhile, the curators have done their best: The sailboat is wedged into Mr. Carnegie's elegant, leaded glass conservatory and the racing car has been parked at the bottom of his grand, paneled staircase. Go take a look. While this won't be the best museum exhibition you'll see this year, its bound to be the most fun. 

--- 

Ms. Berman writes on the art world for the Journal. 

Document J000000020050419e14j0000c


More Like This

 Article 454 *******************    



Industry Insider: COMPUTERS

A PLAYBOOK FOR TAKING ON BIG BLUE; Fujitsu's chairman talks about betting on fast computers and chips 

Staff 
735 words 
25 April 2005
BusinessWeek
2
Volume 3930
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Long before there were PCs in every home, Japan's Fujitsu Ltd. battled IBM in the market for giant mainframes. The PC revolution undercut that business. But in early April, Fujitsu again took on Big Blue -- this time with its new Primequest server computers, which run on chipsets Fujitsu designed around Intel Corp.'s powerful Itanium processor. Fujitsu Chairman Naoyuki Akikusa recently talked with Business Week Online writer Burt Helm about the new server and other technology trends. Here are some edited excerpts: 

Tell us about Fujitsu's computer strategy. 

Servers are the next big product area for Fujitsu. For three years we have been collaborating with Intel, jointly developing a chip set that is going to provide mainframe-class functionality and reliability to servers. These could compete directly with IBM's Power series of computers. Customers who are using big mainframes today will have to phase them out within five to 10 years. Then we will be able to replace their equipment with next-generation servers running Linux or some future versionof Windows. 

Does that require that you stay focused on the cutting edge in chips? 

Yes. Our most advanced semiconductor factory, in Mie prefecture, is producing 300-millimeter wafers with circuits 90 nanometers wide. We were able to get the plant up and running in record time. 

What makes the chip business appealing? 

The various functions of individual products are gradually converging onto single chips. In the end, the chip itself will be the product. This is an important technology trend. Right now chips are only about 10% of our revenues, but that could go up to 15% -- it depends on what kinds of customers we attract. 

You recently curtailed operations in plasma displays for flat TVs. Why is that? 

Fujitsu has a lot of patents in this area and excellent engineers. But if you want to make plasma a main part of your business, you need to invest $1 billion to $1.5 billion every year. In contrast to companies that make television sets, we only make a component -- the panels -- so we have no ability to see the entire market. The consumer-electronics business requires different sales channels, different expertise from what Fujitsu has. Ultimately we decided it would be better to put our money into semiconductors. 

Why have Korean companies been so successful in the flat-panel market? 

It seems to me that the business model for Korean companies is somewhat different from that of Japanese companies. When the Japanese invest $1 billion to build a factory, they focus on high productivity from the beginning, trying to reduce the number of defective parts. Looking at the strategy of Koreans, their priority is summed up by ``faster to market and cheaper to market.'' They take an aggressive pricing strategy, so their competitors give up. Memory chips are a good example. Because of aggressive pricing and marketing by Korean companies, many Japanese companies withdrew from the memory market. Japanese managers tend to focus on getting faster returns on their investment. 

Do you see a threat from Korea in advanced semiconductors? 

When I talk to top managers at Korean companies, they say their companies are focused on middle-tier technology, not the high end. It seems they would rather leave ultrahigh tech to the Japanese. But at the end of the day, the winners are the ones that make big profits. The Koreans are very successful. 

What else does Fujitsu see on the technology horizon? 

We have started planning for future supercomputers with a cluster architecture that will produce speeds of one petaflops [one thousand trillion operations per second]. We have put an engineering team together, and we are aiming for 2010. 

What do you think of nanotech? 

You can read about nanotech in any newspaper these days. Fujitsu, for example, has a battery that uses nanotech. But I think it will still take another 10 to 15 years to develop as a practical business. I strongly dislike the hype about nanotech. But it's O.K. to talk about a technology, even if it doesn't have immediate marketability. That's because it's very important for a high-tech company to have a dream. 

photograph | Photograph: AKIKUSA Mainframes will have to be phased out PHOTOGRAPH BY TORIN BOYD/POLARIS 


Document BW00000020050421e14p00001


More Like This

 Article 455 *******************    


Features/Special Report: Innovation in Medicine

SOUL OF THE NEW GENE MACHINES Building DNA chips using tricks from nanotech and bioinformatics, a startup aims to cash in on the genomics revolution. 

STUART F. BROWN 
2,376 words 
2 May 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
113
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

THIS IS MODERN MEDICINE'S MILLION-DOLLAR question: Does a given human's DNA--yours, for instance--contain a mutation that researchers know or suspect is related to disease? One of many firms setting out to answer it is Illumina, a San Diego biotech. In its lab an army of high-performance machines whimsically called Oligators synthesize zillions of short, single-stranded fragments of DNA known as oligonucleotides, or oligos. Although most of the oligos are only about 17 nanometers in length, each contains enough information to make a perfect fit at just one location on the human DNA molecule's twisted, three- billion-rung ladder. So each oligo offers a potential answer to the million-dollar question. It holds the promise of clues that could help prolong lives. 

For Illumina CEO Jay Flatley, oligos are also the raw materials of riches. They are the key components of Illumina's DNA micro- arrays, commonly known as gene chips. They are mass-produced disposable devices that are fueling the life-sciences revolution much as computer chips fueled infotech. Ranging from paperback-book size down to the size of a bookmark, gene chips offer scientists and drug developers low-cost tools of unprecedented power and sensitivity for unlocking genetic secrets. Hinting at the scale that the business has the potential to attain, Flatley says, "We hope that someday everybody will be genotyped at birth." 

The very opposite of a mad scientist, Flatley, 52, is a quiet, silver-haired Chicago native who holds degrees in economics and industrial automation. He loves to show off Illumina's factory--if it can be called that. It's actually more like a lab, with 20,000 square feet of brightly lit rooms populated with Oligators, gene- chip assembly machines, chip scanners, and data-crunching gear. Flatley proudly notes that the plant is small and cheap. "We have the lowest manufacturing cost of anyone in the market," he says. There is only $5 million in capital tied up here, he says, and he points out that the place is fairly deserted. Not many people are needed to run Illumina's production equipment, in part because Illumina ingeniously harnesses self-assembly, a nanotech method, to simplify its chipmaking and drive down costs. 

Illumina is one of a half-dozen companies that have sprung up to capitalize on the sequencing of the human genome, which was completed in 2003. They're racing to create technology that will take us from that historic achievement to the age of personalized medicine, in which diagnosis, treatment, and even prevention are tailored to people's genetic peculiarities. That's the dream, anyway. Today personalized medicine is still mostly research-- scientists using gene chips to probe the workings of inheritance and its role in health and disease. That's a $1-billion-a-year market, which is growing at a 15% annual rate. A brand-new example of this type of inquiry is the proposed Human Cancer Genome Project, a nine- year, $1.35 billion effort in which researchers at many institutions would compare the genetic sequences of thousands of tumor samples with healthy tissue to identify mutations that cause the disease. 

Gene chips also play a major role in drug development and in the nascent field of drug rescue (see preceding story). The benefits of gene-chip analysis are coming within the reach of your family doctor too. Roche Diagnostics recently got FDA approval for its AmpliChip, a $525 device about the size of a cracker that predicts an individual's ability to metabolize prescription drugs for heart disease, depression, and other ills. Medical labs will use it to help doctors zero in on optimal medicines and doses. 

Illumina is vying against Affymetrix, the industry pioneer, and other rivals including Agilent Technologies, GE Healthcare, Nanogen, NimbleGen Systems, ParAllele BioScience, and Perlegen Sciences. Affymetrix is the industry leader. The 13-year-old company became profitable in 2003 and last year reported net income of $48 million on revenues of $346 million. Illumina lost $6.2 million on revenues of $51 million last year and expects to become profitable this year. 

The pecking order in this fast-moving field is far from set, because no one knows the best way to build a gene chip. Like jousting species in Darwinian evolution, the winners will be companies whose chips deliver the most accurate answers to billions of tiny questions at the lowest cost. And the technology is changing so rapidly that today's leaders could be vaporized by a newcomer with a brilliant innovation. 

Illumina was founded in that spirit by John Stuelpnagel, 47, a veterinarian turned biotech venture capitalist, who is now COO. In the late 1990s Stuelpnagel became fascinated by Affymetrix's pioneering efforts at gene chips. Its technique is to painstakingly build up oligos on quartz wafers, one chemical unit at a time, using a photolithographic process like that employed by makers of computer chips. Stuelpnagel smelled opportunity in an alternative method devised by a chemistry professor at Tufts University. In 1998 he licensed the rights and launched Illumina. 

A few months later Flatley came to visit the venture. "It was a phenomenal technology," he says. "I fell in love." A veteran gearhead, he was co-founder and CEO of Molecular Dynamics, which built DNA sequencers used in the Human Genome Project and which had recently been bought out (the company is now part of GE Healthcare). "The deal hadn't made me rich enough to stop working," Flatley says, and when Stuelpnagel asked if he would like to run Illumina, he leaped at the chance. 

Flatley knew that speed was the name of the game. By 2003, Illumina was making and selling early versions of its chips; even before that, it took advantage of the tech boom to pull off a $100 million IPO. The money gave Illumina the cash it needed to ramp up fast, says Flatley--and to survive the subsequent biotech bust, which wiped out many startups. Illumina's stock, which debuted at $16 a share, fell as low as $1.80; recently it traded at $8.50, and the company still has a war chest of some $50 million. 

What was the technology Flatley fell in love with? Illumina's clever design begins by attaching hundreds of thousands of oligos, those submicroscopic biological sensors, to glass beads so tiny that several dozen would fit onto the period at the end of this sentence. Under high magnification, the beads look like fuzzy tennis balls. Illumina creates hundreds of batches of beads, each batch bearing a different oligo that will seek and latch onto a specific sequence of a DNA sample. 

Next the batches of beads are mixed to form a "pool" into which bundles of microscopic optical fibers are dipped (see illustration, "How to Make a Gene Chip"). Each fiber-- there are 50,000 per bundle- -has a minute pocket chemically etched into its end; when it touches the bead pool, the fiber picks up a single bead, which nestles firmly in the pocket. Thus treated, the bundles are then assembled into a book-sized array. 

It doesn't matter which spot a bead finds; by letting them "self- assemble" on the fibers, Illumina avoids the large cost of trying to accurately position scads of infinitesimal components. Instead, the company uses an ingenious "decoding" process in which a laser scans the bundles after the beads have come to roost, identifying each oligo sitting at the end of a glass fiber. This is like being able to magically identify all the people in a vast crowd from a high- flying airplane. The resulting unique map of all the oligos on the chip is stored on a CD-ROM that is shipped to the customer with the chip. By working with such tiny beads, Illumina crams impressive analytical horsepower onto its products: Some 500,000 oligo beads do their detective work simultaneously on the Sentrix Array Matrix, Illumina's flagship product, which is the workhorse in many genomics labs. 

Customers put all this to work by dipping the array into a specially treated DNA sample. As the sample wets the beads, each oligo looks for the unique DNA sequence it is built to detect. If the sequence is present, the oligo chemically binds to it and then lights up when a finely focused laser is beamed through the array; if the sequence is absent, the oligo stays dark. The pattern of tiny lights winking on across the array translates into a torrent of information about the sample being tested. Such patterns of light may someday yield definitive answers to those million-dollar questions about individual susceptibility to disease. 

Illumina's technology helped it trump rivals in supplying most of the gene chips for a six-nation, $100 million follow-on to the Human Genome Project known as the International HapMap Project (the name derives from blocks of DNA called haplotypes). The project takes aim at giant barriers of expense and practicality that are impeding genetic science. The Human Genome Project created a Mount Everest of knowledge--vast and sublimely beautiful, yet hugely costly to get at and essentially untamed. Even though technology is evolving fast, sequencing an individual's genome is still prohibitively expensive-- $10 million, by current estimates. Before doctors can apply genomics routinely to the needs of individuals, scientists must distill genetic knowledge into practical chunks that are affordable to get. 

The goal of the HapMap project is to chart some shortcuts. On a genetic level, any two people are approximately 99.9% identical. It's in that remaining 0.1% of the genome that our uniqueness, our susceptibility to disease, and our individual responses to drugs reside. So in recent years scientists have been using Illumina's chips to comb through individuals' DNA samples for telltale variations known as single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), or "snips." Depending on where in your genome a SNP is located, it can determine whether you have brown eyes or blue, apparently mean nothing at all, or serve as a marker for disease. Illumina's technology has helped bring down the cost of identifying each SNP from more than 50 cents two years ago to just 2 to 3 cents now. The problem, though, is that each person has ten million or so SNPs, making a complete analysis still too costly. 

The HapMap project, which in the U.S. is mainly funded by the National Institutes of Health and is due for completion this year, uses an ingenious strategy to cut the cost of genetic analysis still further. Scientists have discovered that most of the human genome is organized into haplotypes. These blocks of DNA pass down pretty much unchanged from generation to generation; locating a few distinctive SNPs can be sufficient to identify an entire haplotype. Thus a few hundred thousand "marker SNPs" can provide a shorthand summary of a person's entire genome, cutting the cost of genetic analysis to a few thousand dollars per person. That's cheap enough for researchers around the world to launch studies comparing, say, the genomes of healthy people with those of people who have a disease. From such studies will emerge fresh ideas about where to aim new drugs. "The HapMap is generating a gold-standard set of variants," says Francis Collins, who shepherded the Human Genome Project to completion and directs the NIH's National Human Genome Research Institute. "If you know that a gene has a variant that predisposes somebody to a disease, that variant becomes the best drug target you can imagine." 

Illumina is launching new lines of chips, including one that does "gene-expression profiling." Built to detect which of a person's genes are active or inactive at a given time, the chip generates information thought to be central to fully unraveling the secrets of health and disease. Flatley is also moving the company aggressively into the low end of the market--making DNA technology for drug research and diagnostics. In February he bought CyVera, a Connecticut maker of technology for those applications, for $17.5 million in stock and assumed debt. That will enable Illumina to compete with Affymetrix and other rivals across a broader range of products--and boost its chances of being around decades hence, when gene chips are in everyone's medicine chest. ? 

FEEDBACK sbrown@fortunemail.com 

HOW TO MAKE A GENE CHIP 

Illumina cleverly crams lots of power into its chips. It starts by making a pool of hundreds of thousands of tiny glass beads, each coated with one of some 1,500 types of oligos, DNA fragments that act as sensors (1). When bundles of optical fibers are dipped into the pool (2), a single bead adheres to the end of each fiber (3). Each array includes 96 such bundles (4). A laser scans each fiber to identify the oligo at its tip; the data go onto a CD-ROM (5). When a DNA sample is applied, a laser scans the array again, showing researchers a telltale pattern of reactions (6). 

Like jousting species in Darwinian evolution, today's gene technology leaders could be driven into extinction by a brilliant newcomer.A rival just won approval for a $525 cracker-sized chip that predicts a patient's ability to metabolize antidepressants and other drugs. 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY MISHA GRAVENOR INDUSTRIAL STRENGTH Flatley (left) and Stuelpnagel in the plant where Illumina crafts its cheap, fast DNA analyzers. SIX COLOR ILLUSTRATIONS: FORTUNE GRAPHIC BY JOHN TOMANIO / SOURCE: ILLUMINA 1 Bead pool creation 2 Optical fibers are dipped. 3 Beads adhere to fibers. 4 The completed array 5 Laser mapping 6 The chip at work TWO COLOR PHOTOS: COURTESY OF ILLLUMINA (2) TOUCHED BY A ROBOT An automated dispenser extends needle-like pipettes to place chemicals onto the surface of an array. Bottom: Illumina's Sentrix array and smaller cousins. COLOR PHOTO: MISHA GRAVENOR CALL ME OLIGATOR This $100,000 gizmo churns out billions of short DNA segments called oligos that serve as gene chips' submicroscopic sensors. 


Document FORTU00020050418e15200002


More Like This

 Article 456 *******************    


Sketchbook

Billionaires In Space! 

Michael Kupperman 
833 words 
2 May 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
86
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

THEY MADE VAST FORTUNES BUT NEVER LOST THEIR BOYHOOD DREAMS. THEY WANT TO BE . . .LATELY A BUNCH OF TECH POTENTATES HAVE TAKEN TO DEVELOPING THEIR OWN SPACE PROGRAMS. THE IDEA THAT ANYBODY WITH MONEY AND KNOW-HOW CAN CHALLENGE NASA IS CATNIP TO PEOPLE WHO'VE BUILT EMPIRES ON THE WEB. THEY SEE THEMSELVES AS MAVERICKS, AND THEY ALL GREW UP ON STAR TREK. IT'S TUESDAY, MARCH 23, AND MORE THAN 100 SPACE AFICIONADOS HAVE LANDED IN SCOTTSDALE TO TAKE PART IN FLIGHT SCHOOL 1.0 . . . 

FLIGHT SCHOOL IS A SPINOFF OF PC FORUM, A CONFAB RUN BY TECH EMINENCE ESTHER DYSON. ESTHER DECLARES THAT OPENING SPACE TO HUMAN COMMERCE SHOULD UNLEASH ENERGY LIKE NOTHING SINCE THE ADVENT OF THE INTERNET! 

ESTHER DYSON, TECH EMINENCE 

THE NIGHT BEGINS WITH A TALK BY NASA HONCHO BRUCE HOLMES. NEXT UP IS GEORGE BUTLER, DIRECTOR OF PUMPING IRON-THE MOVIE THAT MADE A STAR OF THE FUTURE GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA! BUTLER SHOWS A CLIP OF HIS NEW IMAX FILM ABOUT NASA'S ROBOT EXPEDITION TO MARS. HE HINTS THAT ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER IN 1976 WAS THE SAME AS SPACE IS NOW: A MASSIVE, AS-YET-UNACKNOWLEDGED ATTRACTION. 

AFTER DINNER, GROUPS OF ATTENDEES, DRINKS IN HAND, ORBIT THE ROOM. THE CONVERSATIONS ARE A SPELLBINDING WHIRL OF BRAINY APERCUS AND AUDACIOUS VISIONS. 

THE REAL STORY BEGINS NOT WHEN PEOPLE GO INTO SPACE, BUT WHEN CIVILIZATION GOES INTO SPACE! 

ADEO RESSI, X-PRIZE DIRECTOR OF STRATEGIC PLANNING 

THE NEXT DAY IS ALL PANELS. PEOPLE DISCUSS NEW TECHNOLOGY AND PAST FAILURES AND AIR TAXIS, WHILE IN THE AIR THERE'S THE COSMIC BACKGROUND BUZZ OF DEALS BEING MADE . . . 

EXPLORATION WITHOUT EXPLOITATION IS EMPTY! 

JEFFREY GREASON, CO-FOUNDER, PRESIDENT, AND CEO, XCOR INDUSTRIES 

IN ATTENDANCE IS GOOGLE CO-FOUNDER LARRY PAGE. NOT HERE, BUT EXERTING POWERFUL INFLUENCE ON THE PROCEEDINGS, ARE PAUL ALLEN, BACKER OF SPACESHIPONE, AND JEFF BEZOS, WHO'S BUILDING A SPACEPORT IN TEXAS! 

JEFF 

LARRY 

PAUL 

PHYSICIST BRADLEY EDWARDS DESCRIBES HIS SPACE ELEVATOR: A THREE- FOOT-WIDE PAPER-THIN SHEET OF CARBONIZED NANOTUBE COMPOSITES THAT WOULD HANG DOWN TO THE EARTH FROM GEOSTATIONARY ORBIT. CLIMBING DEVICES WOULD CARRY MATERIAL TO THE TOP. FROM THERE IT WOULD BE EASY TO GET TO THE MOON OR MARS, USING CENTRIFUGAL FORCE TO AID PROPULSION! 

ZERO GRAVITY CEO PETER DIAMANDIS TELLS HOW HE DEVELOPED THE $10 MILLION ANSARI X-PRIZE, THE COMPETITION THAT RESULTED IN THE HISTORIC SUBORBITAL VOYAGES OF SPACESHIPONE LAST YEAR. HE SAYS HE WAS INSPIRED BY THE AVIATION CONTESTS OF THE EARLY 20TH CENTURY. LATE IN THE DAY NASA ANNOUNCES ITS OWN SPACE CONTESTS. 

LINDBERGH FLEW FOR A PRIZE! 

BUT AS FOR MAKING MONEY . . . 

THERE'S THE OLD JOKE: HOW DO YOU BECOME A MILLIONAIRE IN THE SPACE BUSINESS? START OUT AS A BILLIONAIRE! 

ERIC ANDERSON, PRESIDENT AND CEO, SPACE ADVENTURES 

. . . THE SECTOR THAT SEEMS TO BE DOING THAT IS SPACE TOURISM, THE BUSINESS OF BLASTING MILLIONAIRES INTO ORBIT (TWO SO FAR, AT $20 MILLION A POP, $19.5 MILLION OF WHICH COVERS EXPENSES). BUT EVERYONE HERE SEEMS AWARE THAT IT TAKES JUST ONE CATASTROPHE TO BRING A PROMISING NEW TRAVEL INDUSTRY TO AN END . . . 

STILL, MAN'S YEARNINGS FOR THE STARS ARE UNQUENCHABLE. 

THE FUTURE WE HAVE NOW WITHOUT SPACE IS A DEAD END! 

RICK TUMLINSON, PRESIDENT, SPACE FRONTIER FOUNDATION 

THE APOGEE OF THE CONFERENCE IS A SPEECH BY LEGENDARY PHYSICIST FREEMAN DYSON- ESTHER'S DAD! HE TALKS ABOUT PROJECT ORION, A SECRET GOVERNMENT SPACESHIP PROGRAM, INSPIRED BY SPUTNIK IN 1958. ORION'S SHIPS WOULD HAVE BEEN PROPELLED BY NUCLEAR EXPLOSIONS. (THE PROGRAM WAS DISCONTINUED IN THE 1960S.) 

THE THING COULD'VE FLOWN . . . IT WOULD HAVE CHANGED THE COURSE OF HISTORY! 

DYSON ENVISIONS COLONIES ON ASTEROIDS. HE SPEAKS OF THE DYSON SPHERE, A PLAN TO ENCLOSE A STAR WITH AN ENERGY-ABSORBING SHELL, PROVIDING LIMITLESS POWER. THIS PLAYED A ROLE ON STAR TREK: THE NEXT GENERATION. WE EVEN GET TO SEE THE VIDEOCLIP. 

MR. DATA, COULD THIS BE A DYSON 

SPHERE? 

THE CONFEREES LOVE DYSON'S EVERY WORD. HE'S LIKE AN EMISSARY FROM ANOTHER TIME, WHEN BOLD MEN DREAMED BIG AND ACTED DECISIVELY. 

WE NEEDED A GLORIFIED COKE MACHINE TO DELIVER THE BOMBS AT THE RIGHT 

TIME! 

WHAT IF YOU RAN OUT OF QUARTERS? 

DYSON'S RECOMMENDATION FOR INCREASING PUBLIC INTEREST IN SPACE: SELL IT LIKE SPORTS . . . 

IT IS AN INTERNATIONAL SPORTING EVENT! IT IS FUN! 

. . . AS COMPETITION REENTERS THE PICTURE, AND CHINA, RUSSIA, JAPAN, AND OTHER COUNTRIES DEVELOP THEIR OWN SPACE PROGRAMS. 

THE CONFERENCE HAS BEEN A TRIUMPH, ACCORDING TO ESTHER. 

120 PEOPLE WERE HERE TODAY, AND I HOPE IN A FEW YEARS, 300 PEOPLE WILL SAY THEY WERE HERE! 

IT'S ALL BEEN VERY EXCITING. YET YOU CAN'T HELP BUT WONDER: IS IT WISE TO HAVE THE PEOPLE WHO BROUGHT US THE INTERNET IN CHARGE OF SPACE TRAVEL? 

WE NEED THOSE JETS BACK UP, PRONTO! 

I CAN'T GET PAST THESE POP-UP ADS! 

See also additional image(s) in Table of Contents of same issue. 

COLOR ILLUSTRATION 


Document FORTU00020050429e15200001


More Like This

 Article 457 *******************    



Cover Story

Blogs Will Change Your Business 

By Stephen Baker and Heather Green 
5,456 words 
2 May 2005
BusinessWeek
56
Volume 3931
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Monday 9:30 a.m. It's time for a frank talk. And no, it can't wait. We know, we know: Most of you are sick to death of blogs. Don't even want to hear about these millions of online journals that link together into a vast network. And yes, there's plenty out there not to like. Self-obsession, politics of hate, and the same hunger for fame that has people lining up to trade punches on The Jerry Springer Show. Name just about anything that's sick in our society today, and it's on parade in the blogs. On lots of them, even the writing stinks. 

Go ahead and bellyache about blogs. But you cannot afford to close your eyes to them, because they're simply the most explosive outbreak in the information world since the Internet itself. And they're going to shake up just about every business -- including yours. It doesn't matter whether you're shipping paper clips, pork bellies, or videos of Britney in a bikini, blogs are a phenomenon that you cannot ignore, postpone, or delegate. Given the changes barreling down upon us, blogs are not a business elective. They're a prerequisite. (And yes, that goes for us, too.) 

There's a little problem, though. Many of you don't visit blogs -- or haven't since blogs became a sensation in last year's Presidential race. According to a Pew Research Center Survey, only 27% of Internet users in America now bother to read them. So we're going to take you into the world of blogs by delivering this story -- call it Blogs 101 for businesses -- in the style of a blog. We're even sprinkling it with links. These are underlined words that, when clicked, carry readers of this story's online version to another Web page. This all may make for a strange experience, but it's the closest we can come to reaching out from the page, grabbing you by the collar, and shaking you into action. 

First, a few numbers. There are some 9 million blogs out there, with 40,000 new ones popping up each day. Some discuss poetry, others constitutional law. And, yes, many are plain silly. ``Mommy tells me it may rain today. Oh Yucky Dee Doo,'' reads one April posting. Let's assume that 99.9% are equally off point. So what? That leaves some 40 new ones every day that could be talking about your business, engaging your employees, or leaking those merger discussions you thought were hush-hush. 

Give the paranoids their due. The overwhelming majority of the information the world spews out every day is digital -- photos from camera phones, PowerPoint presentations, government filings, billions and billions of e-mails, even digital phone messages. With a couple of clicks, every one of these items can be broadcast into the blogosphere by anyone with an Internet hookup -- or even a cell phone. If it's scandalous, a poisonous e-mail from a CEO, for example, or torture pictures from a prison camp, others link to it in a flash. And here's the killer: Blog posts linger on the Web forever. 

Yet not all the news is scary. Ideas circulate as fast as scandal. Potential customers are out there, sniffing around for deals and partners. While you may be putting it off, you can bet that your competitors are exploring ways to harvest new ideas from blogs, sprinkle ads into them, and yes, find out what you and other competitors are up to. 

More tomorrow. 

Tuesday 6:35 a.m. How big are blogs? Try Johannes Gutenberg out for size. His printing press, unveiled in 1440, sparked a publishing boom and an information revolution. Some say it led to the Protestant Reformation and Western democracy. Along the way, societies established the rights and rules of the game for the privileged few who could afford to buy printing presses and grind forests into paper. 

The printing press set the model for mass media. A lucky handful owns the publishing machinery and controls the information. Whether at newspapers or global manufacturing giants, they decide what the masses will learn. This elite still holds sway at most companies. You know them. They generally park in sheltered spaces, have longer rides on elevators, and avoid the cafeteria. They keep the secrets safe and coif the company's message. Then they distribute it -- usually on a need-to-know basis -- to customers, employees, investors, and the press. 

That's the world of mass media, and the blogs are turning it on its head. Set up a free account at Blogger or other blog services, and you see right away that the cost of publishing has fallen practically to zero. Any dolt with a working computer and an Internet connection can become a blog publisher in the 10 minutes it takes to sign up. 

Sure, most blogs are painfully primitive. That's not the point. They represent power. Look at it this way: In the age of mass media, publications like ours print the news. Sources try to get quoted, but the decision is ours. Ditto with letters to the editor. Now instead of just speaking through us, they can blog. And if they master the ins and outs of this new art -- like how to get other bloggers to link to them -- they reach a huge audience. 

This is just the beginning. Many of the same folks who developed blogs are busy adding features so that bloggers can start up music and video channels and team up on editorial projects. The divide between the publishers and the public is collapsing. This turns mass media upside down. It creates media of the masses. 

How does business change when everyone is a potential publisher? A vast new stretch of the information world opens up. For now, it's a digital hinterland. The laws and norms covering fairness, advertising, and libel? They don't exist, not yet anyway. But one thing is clear: Companies over the past few centuries have gotten used to shaping their message. Now they're losing control of it. 

Want to get it back? You never will, not entirely. But for a look at what you're facing, come along for a tour of the blogosphere. 

Wednesday 7:38 a.m. Hmm. How to start this post? Idle talk about the weather, or maybe that red wine with dinner last night? No. Let's dive right in: One misstep and the blog world can have its way with you -- even when the coolest, most tech-savvy companies are involved. 

Google is regarded as a secretive company. So in January, when a young programmer named Mark Jen started blogging about his first days in the Googleplex, folks in the 'sphere instantly linked to him. Jen certainly wasn't dealing out inside dirt. But he griped that Google's health plan was less generous than his former employer's -- Microsoft -- and he argued, indignantly, that Google's free food was an enticement for employees to work past dinner. 

Two weeks later, Google fired Jen. And that's when the 22-year-old became a big story. Google was blogbusted for overreacting and for sending an all-too-clear warning to the dozens of bloggers still at the company. A Google official says the company has lots of bloggers and just expects them to use common sense. For example, if it's something you wouldn't e-mail to a long list of strangers, don't blog it. 

Jen clearly flunked that test. ``As the media got hold of it, I was quickly educated,'' he says. He says he should have understood the company's goals and concerns better and been more sensitive to them. Still, his adventure turned him into an overnight celebrity. He was wooed by recruiters at Amazon.com, Microsoft, and Yahoo! A month later, Jen landed a job at Plaxo, an Internet contact-management company. A key part of his job, says a company spokesperson, is to help coordinate Plaxo's blogging efforts -- a pillar of Plaxo's promotional strategy. So what got him fired turned out to be his trump card. Plaxo, like many other companies, is now drawing up norms for blogging behavior, so that employees know what's in bounds, and what's not. 

2:22 p.m. It sounds like the joke answer on a multiple-choice exam. Name a leading company in blog communications: General Motors? 

That's right. For a company that's slipping in the auto biz, GM is showing a surprisingly nimble touch with blogs. GM uses them on occasion to steer past its own PR department and the mainstream press. 

In January, Vice-Chairman Bob Lutz launched his own FastLane Blog. Bloggers applauded, and car buffs flooded Lutz with suggestions and complaints. Lutz posted lots of barbs from outsiders and won points for balanced responses. Like his answer to criticisms of new Pontiacs: ``Did you take a look at seat tailoring? Carpet fits?...hood gaps, hem flanges? We used to be bad at those, too.'' 

But Lutz is only part of GM's blog strategy. In April the company yanked $10 million in advertising from the Los Angeles Times and demanded that the Times make retractions. Journalists asked GM for specific complaints, and the car company held off. It said it wanted to work quietly with the Times and not battle it out in the press. 

How to get the word out through a back channel? GM directed journalists to a blog, AutomoBear.com, that detailed GM's beef. (It had to do with a comparison between two cars, which GM thought was unfair.) Both GM and Miro Pacic, the blogger at AutomoBear, say that GM provided Pacic with information but that no money passed hands. 

Fair enough. But even if GM doesn't pay for positive coverage in blogs, just consider the possibilities in this new footloose media world. There's little to stop companies from quietly buying bloggers' support, or even starting unbranded blogs of their own to promote their products -- or to tar the competition. This raises all kinds of questions about the ever-shrinking wall between advertising and editorial. We'll cover that later, when we get to the blogs' impact on our own business -- the media. 

Thursday 8:56 a.m. It's the latest wrinkle on Descartes. I blog therefore I... consult. An entire industry is rising up to guide companies into this frightening new realm. And the consultants establish their brands and reps with their blogs. 

Perhaps the biggest is Steve Rubel. A year ago, the exec at the PR firm CooperKatz & Co. started his blog, Micro Persuasion. He was already pushing such clients as WeatherBug and the Association of National Advertisers into the blog world. Then early one Sunday morning, as he recalls it, ``my wife was sleeping, and I was sitting in the living room, laptop on my lap, and thinking if I am talking to clients and reading these blogs, I should jump in.'' When launching his site, he had the smarts to contact big shots such as Dan Gillmor, who was a leading blogger and tech reporter with the San Jose Mercury News. Gillmor linked to Rubel's site, and his traffic took off. It was great for his brand, and it also gave Rubel a blogger's education. ``I became a living guinea pig for what I preach,'' he says. 

Now Rubel is positioned as an all-knowing Thumper in a forest of clueless Bambis. The first job, he says, is to monitor the blogs to see what people are saying about your company. (An entire industry is growing to sell that service. Even IBM's banging at the door.) Next step: Damage-control strategies. How to respond when blogs attack. He says companies have to learn to track what blogs are talking about, pinpoint influential bloggers, and figure out how to buttonhole them, privately and publicly. 

He gives the example of Netflix. When a fan blog called Hacking Netflix asked the company for info and interviews last year, Netflix turned it down. How could they make time for all the bloggers? Predictably, the blogger, Mike Kaltschnee, aired the exchange, and Netflix faced a storm of public criticism. Now Netflix feeds info to Kaltschnee, and he passes along what he's hearing from the fans. Sounds like he's half journalist, half consultant -- though he insists Netflix doesn't pay him. 

Friday 10:46 a.m. The question came up at a panel discussion last week: Any chance that a blog bubble could pop? The answer is really easy: no. 

At least not an investment bubble. Venture firms financed only $60 million in blog startups last year, according to industry tracker VentureOne. Chump change compared to the $19.9 billion that poured into dot-coms in 1999. The difference is that while dot-coms promised to make loads of money, blogs flex their power mostly by disrupting the status quo. 

The bigger point, which is blindingly obvious when you think about it, is that the dot-com era was powered by companies -- complete with programmers, marketing budgets, Aeron chairs, and burn rates. The masses of bloggers, by contrast, are normal folks with computers: no budget, no business plan, no burn rate, and -- that's right -- no bubble. 

The role of the blog startups is to build tools for this grassroots uprising. Six Apart, a four-year-old San Francisco company, leads in blog software. Technorati and PubSub Concepts are battling it out in blog search. The founders all insist that they plan to remain independent. But if recent history is any guide, most of them will wind up in the bellies of the blog-minded Internet giants -- led by Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft. The latest to disappear was Flickr. A photo-sharing service that spread madly across the blog world, 13-month-old Flickr was still running its software in its beta, or testing, phase when it was acquired by Yahoo in March for an undisclosed sum. Caterina Fake, Flickr's co-founder, wrote about the deal in her blog the day it happened: ``Don't forget to breathe. It's not the end, it's the beginning.'' 

Monday 10:23 a.m. If this were a true blog, that last post would have generated a mountain of comments over the weekend, most of them with the same question: If there's no clear business model, why are the Internet giants so bent on getting a foothold in blogs? Look at it from their point of view. A vibrant community that has doubled in size in the past eight months is teeming with potential customers and has a mother lode of data to mine. ``Blogs are what's causing the Web to grow,'' says Jason Goldman. He's project manager at Google's Blogger, the world's biggest service to set people up as bloggers. 

David Sifry looks at it a bit differently. He's a serial entrepreneur and founder of Technorati , the blog search engine. 

For Sifry, it's not the growth of the same Web, but an entirely new one. It's wrapped up far more in people's day-to-day lives. It's connected to time. The way he describes it, the Web we've come to know is mostly a collection of documents. A library. These documents don't change much. Try Googling Donald Trump, and you're more likely to find his Web page than a discussion of his appearance last night on The Apprentice. 

Blogs are different. They evolve with every posting, each one tied to a moment. So if a company can track millions of blogs simultaneously, it gets a heat map of what a growing part of the world is thinking about, minute by minute. E-mail has carried on billions of conversations over the past decade. But those exchanges were private. Most blogs are open to the world. As the bloggers read each other, comment, and link from one page to the next, they create a global conversation. 

Picture the blog world as the biggest coffeehouse on Earth. Hunched over their laptops at one table sit six or seven experts in nanotechnology. Right across from them are teenage goths dressed in black and thoroughly pierced. Not too many links between those two tables. But the cafe goes on and on. Saudi women here, Labradoodle lovers there, a huge table of people fooling around with cell phones. Those are the mobile-photo crowd, busily sending camera-phone pictures up to their blogs. 

The racket is deafening. But there's loads of valuable information floating around this cafe. Technorati, PubSub, and others provide the tools to listen. While the traditional Web catalogs what we have learned, the blogs track what's on our minds. 

Why does this matter? Think of the implications for businesses of getting an up-to-the-minute read on what the world is thinking. Already, studios are using blogs to see which movies are generating buzz. Advertisers are tracking responses to their campaigns. ``I'm amazed people don't get it yet,'' says Jeff Weiner, Yahoo's senior vice-president who heads up search. ``Never in the history of market research has there been a tool like this.'' 

Tuesday 9:12 p.m. Back to that coffeehouse. Sitting at one large table is a collection of some of the most gifted geeks you can imagine. These folks built the blogosphere. And they're using it to link with each other. They share ideas, test them, and get them up and running in a hurry. Many of them transform the network itself, making it more muscular -- and disruptive. 

The innovation that sends blogs zinging into the mainstream is RSS, or Really Simple Syndication. Five years ago, a blogger named Dave Winer, working with software originally developed by Netscape, created an easy-to-use system to turn blogs, or even specific postings, into Web feeds. With this system, a user could subscribe to certain blogs, or to key words, and then have all the relevant items land at a single destination. These personalized Web pages bring together the music and video the user signs up for, in addition to news. They're called ``aggregators.'' For now, only about 5% of Internet users have set them up. But that number's sure to rise as Yahoo and Microsoft plug them. 

In time, aggregators could turn the Web on its head. Why? They discourage surfing as users increasingly just wait for interesting items to drop onto their page or e-mailbox. Internet advertising, which traditionally counts on page views and clicks, could be thrown for a loop. Already Yahoo is packaging ads on the feeds. Google is testing the waters. 

But here's the really insidious part. If you set up your own aggregator page, such as my.yahoo.com, and subscribe to feeds, you soon discover that blog and mainstream postings mingle side by side. Feeds zip through the walls between blogs and the rest of the information world. Blog posts are becoming just part of the mix, swimming on the same page with the Associated Press, and yes, BusinessWeek. 

Winer also ushered in a second tech breakthrough, podcasting. A back-and-forth between Winer and Adam Curry, a blogger and former MTV host, led last year to a system that easily distributes audio files. Looking for National Public Radio's On the Media or the latest ska compilations from a disk jockey in Trinidad? Sign up on a Web page, and the program gets automatically delivered to you -- as an audio feed. Last summer, Curry created software called iPodder so these MP3s could hitch a ride on an iPod. That was the birth of podcasting: radio programming whenever and wherever you want it. Since then, some 5,000 podcasting shows have sprouted up. They cover everything from yoga to the blues. 

It's an overnight sensation. Before podcasting, only about 150 people a month bothered to download the audio files of Morning Stories, a show on Boston's public station WGBH. After the station switched to podcasting in October? Eighty thousand. Chalk it up to the bloggers. They pushed podcasting to their own circles, and it grew from there. 

11:48 p.m. One more idea. Think of TiVo, think of the iPod. When you're using one of them, do you consider the company that provides the programming? CBS, for example? Not much. You're putting together your own package. The pieces come from lots of companies and artists. Often you don't even know where. 

Aggregators do the same job for the Net. So, just like the record companies, which have figured out how to market bits and pieces of their albums as standalone songs and ringtones, the rest of the media and entertainment world is going to have to think small. Content, whether it's news or a Hollywood movie, is going to travel in bite-size nuggets. The challenge, for bloggers and giants alike, is to brand those nuggets and devise ways to sell them or wrap them in advertising. 

Wednesday 6:31 a.m. A prediction: Mainstream media companies will master blogs as an advertising tool and take over vast commercial stretches of the blogosphere. Over the next five years, this could well divide winners and losers in media. And in the process, mainstream media will start to look more and more like -- you guessed it -- blogs. Clay Shirky, a Web expert at New York University, calls it ``an absorption process where the thing doing the absorbing changes.'' 

Take a look at blog advertising today, and it's hard to see a glittering future. Sure, enterprising bloggers make room on their pages for Google-generated ads, known as AdSense, and earn some pocket change. Some blog entrepreneurs, such as Nick Denton, publisher of New York's Gawker Media, sell ads for everything from Nike to Absolut Vodka. Popular blogs can land sponsorship deals for as much as $25,000 per month, say consultants. O.K. money for an entrepreneur, but a rounding error in the ad industry. 

Blog power simply doesn't translate yet into big bucks. For now, it's running mostly on people's passion to communicate -- especially in developing markets. Consider Hossein Derakhshan. He's a 28-year-old Iranian blogger based in Toronto. He has thousands of readers, and politicians respond to his postings -- even as the Iranian government frantically tries to shut down the servers hosting his blog. Yet Derakhshan can't yet cash on his fame. ``Google doesn't have AdSense service in Persian yet,'' he says. 

Still, blogs could end up providing the perfect response to mass media's core concern: the splintering of its audience. Advertisers desperate to reach us need to tap niches (because we get together only once a year to watch the Super Bowl). By piggybacking on blogs, they can start working that vast blogocafe, table by table. Smart ones will get feedback, links to individuals -- and their friends. That's every marketer's dream. 

The big companies have what the bloggers lack. Scale, relations with advertisers, and large sales forces. They can use these forces to sell across all media, from general audience to bloggy niches. Already, Yahoo and Microsoft have been investing heavily to position themselves for niche advertising. And in February, the New York Times laid down $410 million for About Inc., a collection of 500 specialized Web sites that smell strongly of blogs. ``What's to stop them from turning those 500 sites into 5,000?'' says Dave Morgan, founder of TACODA Systems, an Internet advertising company. 

Thursday 9 a.m. Hate to get wiggy here. But if the blogs eventually swallow up ad revenue, what's going to happen to us? 

Yes, we, too, are under the gun. MSM, the bloggers call us. Mainstream media. And many of them delight in uncovering our errors, knocking us off that big pedestal we've occupied since the the first broadsheets started circulating. 

We have to master the world of blogs, too. This isn't because they're taking away ad revenue, at least not yet, but because they represent millions of eyewitnesses armed with computers spread around the world. They are potential competitors -- or editorial resources. 

Blog reporters showed their value following the Asian tsunami in December. Thousands of them posted pictures, video footage, and articles about the disaster long before the first accredited journalists showed up. MSNBC, which ran hours of tsunami footage on its Web site, has since opened an entire page devoted to citizens' journalism. 

Dan Gillmor, who quit his San Jose newspaper job, is lining up investors for a new type of media company, Grassroots Media. He's interested in elements of an online journalism business in Korea, called OhmyNews. It mingles articles from 50 staff journalists with reports e-mailed and text-messaged in from thousands of citizen reporters. OhmyNews says it has been profitable for a year and a half and expects revenue this year of $10 million. ``I keep hoping that all of the new conversational forms will augment the existing one,'' Gillmor says. 

11:57 p.m. Thinking out of the box here for a minute. What would this article look like if it were a real blog, and not just this glossy simulacrum? 

Think of the way we produce stories here. It's a closed process. We come up with an idea. We read, we discuss in-house, and then we interview all sorts of experts and take their pictures. We urge them not to spill the beans about what we're working on. It's a secret. Finally, we write. Then the story goes through lots and lots of editing. And when the proofreaders have had their last look, someone presses the button and we launch a finished product on the world. 

If this were a real blog, we probably would have posted our story pitch on Day One, before we did any reporting. In the blog world, a host of experts (including many of the same ones we called for this story) would weigh in, telling us what's wrong, what we're overlooking. In many ways, it's a similar editorial process. But it takes place in the open. It's a discussion. 

Why draw this comparison? In a world chock-full of citizen publishers, we mainstream types control an ever-smaller chunk of human knowledge. Some of us will work to draw in more of what the bloggers know, vetting it, editing it, and packaging it into our closed productions. But here's betting that we also forge ahead in the open world. The measure of success in that world is not a finished product. The winners will be those who host the very best conversations. 

Friday 11 a.m. So why not start here? We've done our research on blogs, made our dire pronouncements. Pretty soon, someone in production will press the button. But this story should go on, as a conversation. And it will, starting on Apr. 22. We're launching our own blog to cover the business drama ahead, as blogging spreads into companies and redefines media. The blog's name? Blogspotting.net. See you there. 


Blogging: A Primer
          
          JOHANNES GUTENBERG
          This 15th-century German devised technology to manufacture books. Gutenberg failed as a businessman and died poor. Yet his printing press, involving movable type, gave birth to mass media -- a world in which a handful of publishers can reach audiences of millions. That model is under threat today.
          
          MOBLOGGING
 Posting to a blog on the go, from a camera phone or handheld device. These postings can be random or tied to news, such as picturesof the iPod Shuffle when                                                                     it was launched at Apple Computer's MacWorld, or the birth of a baby.

 VIDEO BLOGGING, OR VLOGGING
 Video blogging, where individuals and companies post video diaries online,                          began to take off last year. The trend is spurring the revival of online video distribution, the use of vlogs to sell ads, and the designing of corporate blog sites. Microsoft's Channel 9 video blog, set up in April, helps the company communicate directly with its all-important developer community.

 PODCASTING
 The nascent technology allows individuals to create their own radio shows and deliver them automatically over the Web. They can be played on computers or any mobile devices, such as the iPod (hence the name). Although they were created by bloggers and propagated by the blogosphere, the Establishment is jumping in. In April, Paris Hilton announced she would do podcasts promoting her new movie, House of Wax.

 RSS
 Really Simple Syndication is a snappy way to track blogs. Individuals sign up to have updates sent automatically to their computers, making it convenient to follow blogs. Around 6 million people, or 5% of the U.S. online audience, use RSS, according to a Pew survey. Companies such as Yahoo! and Associated Press are adopting RSS to keep audiences loyal and to attract new users.

 DOOCED
 An expression used when someone loses a job                                                         because of blogging. This happened to flight attendant Ellen Simonetti at Delta Air Lines. Firings can occur when a company finds an employee's post questionable or too revealing about sensitive data. Where does the name come from? Heather Armstrong, who lost her job because her Web site, dooce.com, included stinging satire of her former employer.
CITIZEN JOURNALISM
          Eyewitness or investigative reporting by a blogger adds new insight to events not covered by traditional media. Examples: Early personal accounts of the tsunami in December or digging into the authenticity of memos used by CBS's Dan Rather in his report on President Bush's National Guard duty.
          
          MAINSTREAM MEDIA OR MSM, ALSO CALLED LAME STREAM MEDIA
          Any publication, radio station, or TV news channel that doesn't recognize the power shift created by the blogosphere and doesn't adopt blogging. The MSM are derided by bloggers for lecturing and adhering to what they call false objectivity.
          
          FAKE BLOGS, SOMETIMES CALLED FLOGS
          Fake blogs created by corporate marketing departments to promote a service, product, or brand. The flog's writer often uses a fake name. Derided by bloggers, fake blogs are an increasing trend. McDonald's created a flog to accompany its Super Bowl ad about the mock discovery of a french fry shaped like Lincoln, while Captain Morgan created a fake blog in March for its Rum drinks.
          
          CREATIVE COMMONS
          This nonprofit has devised a copyright system that allows creators to be more flexible in allowing others to use their works. This is important in the grassroots blogging world, since it encourages people to publish video, podcasts, and photos online that others can add to their blogs. Online photo service Flickr, co-founded by Caterina Fake, encourages subscribers to share photos using the Creative Commons licenses.
          
          PAID BLOGGING
          Unlike bloggers who simply put a banner ad on their site, paid bloggers write about a product or issue. This has created controversy about whether bloggers need to disclose that they are being paid and whether the practice damages their credibility. Upstart Marqui paid 20 bloggers $800 a month for three months to promote its Web marketing services, while Republicans and Democrats paid three bloggers during the recent elections.
          
          MICRO-NEWS
          Blogs devoted to extremely niche topics. When Lockhart Steele started a blog chronicling restaurant openings and new building construction in his rapidly changing neighborhood on New York's Lower East Side, he quickly found an audience -- and advertisers, including the New York Times real estate section.
   

photograph | Photograph: GET ON TRACK: Gurus like Steve Rubel are happy to guide the clueless PHOTOGRAPH BY ARA KOOPELIAN | photograph | Photograph: POLITICAL ANIMAL: Toronto-based Derakhshan's blog is must reading in Iran PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER SIBBALD | photograph | Photograph: INSTANT HISTORY: The Web provided gripping footage of last year's tsunami | photograph | Photograph: SIFRY: His Technorati is a force in blog search PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY ARCHIBALD | photograph | Photograph: SIMONETTI: Blog casualty | photograph | Photograph: RATHER felt New Media's clout PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY BULL/AP/WIDE WORLD | photograph | Photograph: AUTO SHOW: GM's Lutz is winning kudos for his blog PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE POLIMENI/GENERAL MOTORS | photograph | Photograph: GILLMOR: Pushing grass-roots media PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY ARCHIBALD | photograph | Photograph: FAKE: Giving shutterbugs a forum PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT KARPA | photograph | Photograph: DAIRY QUEEN: Christine Halverson blogs for Stonyfield Farm's yogurt PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON GROW | photograph | Photograph: STEELE: Neighborhood watch 


Document BW00000020050428e15200014


More Like This

 Article 458 *******************    



Special Report

WHY TAIWAN MATTERS; The global economy couldn't function without it. But can it really find peace with China? 

By Bruce Einhorn, with Matt Kovac in Taipei, Pete Engardio in New York, Dexter Roberts in Beijing, 
3,902 words 
16 May 2005
BusinessWeek
76
Volume 3933
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Want to find the hidden center of the global economy? Take a drive along Taiwan's Sun Yat-sen Freeway. This stretch of road is how you reach the companies that connect the vast marketplaces and digital powerhouses of the U.S. with the enormous manufacturing centers of China. 

The Sun Yat-sen is as bland as any U.S. interstate, but it's the highway of globalization. Though it snakes along the whole west coast of Taiwan, the key 70-km stretch starts in Taipei's booming new Neihu district of high-tech office buildings and ends in Hsinchu, home to two of Taiwan's best universities, its top research center, and a world-renowned science park. Along the way, the Sun Yat-sen leads to some of the most important but anonymous tech outfits in the world: Asustek Computer, whose China factories spit out iPods and Mini Macs for Apple; and Quanta Computer, the No. 1 global maker of notebook PCs and a key supplier to Dell and Hewlett-Packard. You'll also find Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSMC), the biggest chip foundry on the planet, an essential partner to U.S. companies such as Qualcomm and Nvidia. Dozens more companies dot the Neihu-Hsinchu corridor. There's AU Optronics, a big supplier of liquid-crystal display panels, and Hon Hai Precision Industry, which makes everything from PC components to Sony's PlayStation 2, and which is a fast-rising rival to Flextronics International, the world's biggest contract manufacturer. Taken together, the revenues of Taiwan's 25 key tech companies should hit $122 billion this year. 

Taiwan's success is also China's. No one knows for sure how much of China's exports in information and communications hardware are made in Taiwanese-owned factories, but the estimates run from 40% to 80%. As many as 1 million Taiwanese live and work on the mainland. ``All the manufacturing capacity in China is overlaid with the management and marketing expertise of the Taiwanese, along with all their contacts in the world,'' observes Russell Craig, of tech consultants Vericors Inc. 

CROSS-STRAIT DRAMA 

Impressive stuff. Yet for many people around the world, Taiwan evokes only one thing: the standoff between the People's Republic of China, which considers the thriving democracy as just one of its provinces, and Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian, who has made little secret of his dream of one day declaring Taiwan independent. This cross-strait drama is now in a tense new phase, played out with dramatic effect in recent weeks. First Beijing passed an anti-secession law authorizing an attack on Taiwan in case it moves towards independence. Taiwan responded with a massive anti-Beijing rally. Then came the shocker: The late April visit to the mainland by Lien Chan, Chen's chief political opponent and chairman of Taiwan's Kuomintang (KMT). As millions of Taiwanese and Chinese watched on television, Chinese President Hu Jintao shook hands with the opposition leader at a lavish state reception in Beijing. After Lien returned to Taipei on May 3, Hu's government sweetened its PR offensive with more goodies, including a plan to ease restrictions on Chinese travel to Taiwan, lift tariffs on some Taiwanese agricultural imports -- and send two giant pandas to the Taipei Zoo. To add even more surprise, Taiwanese President Chen, despite some of his supporters' fury at Lien's visit, inserted himself into the dialogue. Chen agreed to send a message to Chinese President Hu through another opposition leader, James Soong of the People First Party, who was scheduled to start a China trip on May 5. Hu seems to be counting on his contacts with the opposition to increase pressure on Chen, forcing him to accept that the island is part of China. But that's a concession Chen's unlikely to make. 

Real reconciliation thus seems a long way off. Yet any serious attempt to lower the tension would hold huge promise for the executives who run America's IT industry, which depends on Taiwan for so much of its goods. A shooting war between Taiwan and China would be catastrophic in human terms. And for the Western companies that have built their fortunes around Taiwan, the damage would be a direct hit to the global economy and the Digital Age. ``It would be the equivalent of a nuclear bomb going off,'' says a top executive at a U.S. high-tech giant. Couldn't U.S. industry develop sources of IT supply that don't involve the Taiwanese? ``That's like asking, 'What's the second source for Mideast oil?' says this exec. ``You might find it, but it's going to cost you.'' Insiders estimate that it would take a year and a half to even begin to replace the vast web of design shops and mainland factories the Taiwanese have built. ``The IT model is not one built on second-sourcing,'' says Ken Wirt, a top executive for the handheld business of palmOne Inc. 

Not that Taiwan and China aren't also extremely pragmatic. Throughout this turbulent spring Taiwan Inc. hasn't missed a step. For instance, Acer Inc., the PC maker, increased sales by 40% in March; its models are among the top five sellers in the world. Dell and Hewlett-Packard will source $10 billion and $21 billion respectively from Taiwan this year, estimates Chicago-based consulting firm THT Research, which tracks contract manufacturing. Apple is boosting its order book from Taiwan companies by 28% from a year ago, to $5 billion. Quanta on Apr. 8 announced a partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to cooperate on research into the next generation of computing. Despite a cyclical downturn that has hurt profits, TSMC has embarked on a $2.6 billion ramp-up to produce more custom-designed chips than ever. Compared with a more specialized chipmaker such as Intel, ``we have maybe 100 times the number of product lines,'' says TSMC chairman and CEO, Morris Chang. ``It takes a very special expertise.'' 

China may threaten Taiwan as No. 1 IT supplier. But for now it's Taiwanese engineers who provide ever-more-ingenious solutions to manufacturing and design conundrums. ``In Taiwan, people say the U.S. understanding of outsourcing is backward,'' says Victor Zue, co-director of the Computer Science & Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at MIT. ``It feels more like the Taiwanese are outsourcing marketing and branding to the rest of the world.'' 

The island's high-tech industry has had to improve its skills sharply to get where it is today. Barely a decade ago, Taiwan made components or assembled machines designed elsewhere, and was only a marginal player in more lucrative segments of the electronics industry. Today its companies are increasingly proficient at original design, and dominate manufacturing in key categories. In LCD screens the Taiwanese have passed the Japanese and rival the Koreans. Taiwan is tops in routers, notebook computers, and cable modems. The PC industry ``has really consolidated around Taiwan,'' says John A. Antone, Hong Kong-based head of the Asia Pacific region for Intel Corp., which has 400 engineers at work on the island. ``That's just where the best engineering is done.'' 

How does Taiwan do it? Lower pay helps. ``You look at the engineering costs in the U.S. and compare them to Taiwan's, and we are talking about one third of the cost,'' says Kai Hsiao, director of global procurement for greater China at HP. Visit Taiwan-owned factories on the mainland, and you will find that assembly line wages average $120 a month. 

But Taiwan's advantage goes way beyond cheap labor. The island combines an entrepreneurial culture with effective government involvement. The Hsinchu-based Industrial Technology Research Institute is a collection of labs that works closely with local companies. It has 4,300 engineers striving to match the best that the West, Japan, and Korea can offer in fields such as microelectronics and optoelectronics. The government-backed Institute has alliances with scientists from MIT, the University of California at Berkeley, and Carnegie Mellon University in the U.S. Companies such as TSMC and cross-town rival United Microelectronics Corp. (UMC) have their origins in ITRI technology. 

The result is one of the deepest reserves of high-tech talent in the world. It starts with figures such as Chang, who was present at the creation of Taiwanese tech. Walk into Fab 12, TSMC's multibillion-dollar facility in Hsinchu, and off to your left you'll see a giant portrait of the chairman sitting, pipe in hand, in an armchair. Surrounding him are scenes from his life -- as a child in Hong Kong, as a student at Harvard, and as TSMC chief at the company's debut on the New York Stock Exchange. But the silver-haired Chang, 73, isn't done yet. He's still working hard to beat rivals UMC in Taiwan and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMIC) in Shanghai. He's also pushing Taiwan's politicians to build up the island's schooling. ``I wish we had a world-class university,'' he says. 

Chang and other tech leaders blend Western values -- Chang took liberal-arts classes at Harvard before studying mechanical engineering at MIT -- with Asian culture. One minute Jonney Shih, Asustek's 52-year-old founder, will be discussing Six Sigma best practices and the next minute he'll be evoking the Changshan snake described in Sun Tzu's Art of War. When attacked at one end, the serpent counterattacks with the other. ``We need that kind of fast reaction,'' says Shih. 

The quick reflexes of Taiwanese like Shih make all the difference. Unlike Korea, where Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc. dominate, Taiwan is composed of smaller and nimbler outfits. When Taiwanese companies get too large, they tend to spin off businesses and refocus. Hence, in 2001 computer maker Acer Inc. begat consumer electronics company BenQ and LCD panel maker AU Optronics. The Hsinchu-based chip design houses spun off from UMC include MediaTek and Novatek, a designer of chips for LCDs. 

Some of Taiwan's most important tech companies have also grown by acquiring technology from elsewhere. Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corp. (CMO) licensed LCD technology from Fujitsu Ltd. and hired top engineers to come up with the rest of the expertise it needed to become a leading LCD producer. 

All these businesses excel at serving corporate customers. Eighteen months ago, after Intel had made a big bet on Centrino, the wireless Internet system for notebook PCs, the American company sought out a partner that could quickly get Centrino computers to the market. So Intel teamed up with engineers at Acer. Within three months, says Acer CEO J.T. Wang, they not only came up with a high-end Centrino notebook sold under the Acer brand but also mid-tier and even entry-level PCs using Intel's new technology. 

Taiwanese companies will do just about anything to please customers. When Quanta was first working on what promised to be a hot new design for a top client, it had to work in total secrecy. Quanta executives guaranteed the U.S. customer that all work would be done in the middle of the night. They even had the assembly line draped in concealing black. Other Taiwanese companies combine discretion with an ability to handle even the smallest orders. HP's Hsiao says he places orders for as few as 10 PCs of a specialized configuration. The Taiwanese can process and ship such an order in 48 hours. ``They can change direction overnight,'' says Hsiao. 

This do-whatever-it-takes ethos has led Taiwan's businesses to move to the mainland at astonishing speed. ``In 1999 we had about 300 employees'' in China, says Alexander Lee, head of operations for Asustek in Suzhou, China. ``Now we have more than 45,000.'' Issues of loyalty don't enter the equation. Acer CEO Wang recently asked his own Taiwanese suppliers if, as good citizens, they'd keep some production in Taiwan. ``Their answer was: 'No way,''' he says. 

The Taiwanese also play a vital role for rivals on the mainland. Liu Chuanzhi, chairman of Beijing computer company Lenovo Group Ltd., which just completed its purchase of IBM's PC division, says Lenovo sources components from Taiwanese companies. According to THT Research, Lenovo even buys notebooks from Quanta, Compal, and MiTAC. Liu says that's not the case. 

Most important of all, the Taiwanese are the real developers of China's semiconductor industry. Chinese companies such as SMIC depend on squads of Taiwanese executives for knowhow. TSMC is still far ahead but it is starting to focus on China, too. The Taipei government has allowed TSMC to invest $900 million for its own plant in China. 

In effect, Taiwan is hoping to control design and innovation while giving over much of its manufacturing to China. When U.S. companies come to Taiwan today, they say, ``'This is what we want. Do you have it?''' says Billy Ho, president of MiTAC, which makes smart phones, PDAs, and servers. 

Increasingly, the Taiwanese do. Two years ago, MiTAC decided to upgrade the PDAs it sells under its own brand name as well as under several different names in Europe. In discussions with the sales team, Ho recalled how, when he lived near Birmingham, England, he would get baffled by the layout of the city streets. A PDA with GPS, the satellite-controlled global positioning system often found in cars, was the answer. Today, MiTAC is No. 3 globally in PDAs, behind only Dell and HP. 

The Taiwanese know they're good at such innovations. But they also know they are being squeezed on price even while they are under relentless pressure to be more creative. ``Margins have come screaming out of the PC business because products have become very commoditized,'' says Michael Marks, CEO of Flextronics Corp. Net margins at Asustek have fallen to 6.4%, from 19% in 2001. The company's 2004 net profit of $484 million was 7% lower than what it was in 2001, although sales nearly tripled in the same period to $8 billion. Both Quanta and Compal have suffered from falling profit margins too, despite fast-rising sales. 

Some analysts also wonder how long the Taiwanese will have the edge in chips. ``I don't think Taiwan is in the driver's seat anymore,'' says James C. Mulvenon, co-author of a 2004 Rand Corporation study on Taiwan's and China's chip industries, which concludes that European and Japanese chipmakers will provide China with technology the Taiwanese refuse to share. 

One way out is to find new markets. ``We have to get into the next wave of products,'' says Ray Chen, president of Compal. ``It can be TVs, cell phones, home digital media centers. We don't know yet.'' To do that better, Compal plans to double its R&D team. Quanta's beefing up too. In its $20 million partnership with MIT, Quanta is looking at using artificial intelligence to link digital devices that have different operating systems. Quanta boss Barry Lam also identifies autos as a promising area. As control and display systems in cars go digital, the Taiwanese can apply their expertise in making complex components for small spaces. 

The other way to stay ahead for Taiwan is to create its own brands and maintain solid margins by delivering better performance and design. A leader in the branding effort is BenQ, which has its own brand of thin-screen TVs and MP3 players. Since its launch in 2001, BenQ has stressed in-house design to make its branded products stand out. Manfred Wang, who runs the BenQ design center, leads a team of 70 designers who have, among other things, come up with a PC monitor whose base can be folded up against it, taking up much less space in shipping. ``Our designers are aware of the manufacturing process and that's a big advantage,'' says Wang, who learned his skills in Germany and once worked at Porsche. 

At the heart of Taiwan's effort to reinvent itself is the government research institute, ITRI. It's into everything from new wireless networks to nanotubes that provide backlighting for displays. It's also trying to mix the hard sciences with something softer. Enter Room 131 of Block 53 on the main campus, and you'll find the Creativity Lab. The place looks more like an advertising agency than a high-tech center, with its stuffed animals and a comfy couch for a staff that includes artists, psychologists, and an anthropologist, in addition to engineers. The idea is that getting techies together with liberal arts types will help designers think more broadly, says Wen-Jean Hsueh, a PhD in mechanical engineering from California Institute of Technology who is the lab's head. ``We know we have strong manufacturing and engineering,'' she says. ``But we have to look beyond this.'' 

Even this fresh effort has to build on Taiwan's engineering corps, which can't expand enough to meet all of Taiwan's needs. With so many companies expanding research and development, ``we have to fight very hard to get experienced guys,'' says Hsiao-ping Lin, head of Faraday Technology, which specializes in chip design services. He hopes to hire Indian engineers, but adds, ``in the long run, we will set up an R&D center in mainland China.'' 

That shift to China is understandably of great concern to Taiwan's political and business leaders. But it may be inevitable. ``The market here is so much more important than Taiwan's,'' says Lawrence Ho, the Taiwan-born owner of online music startup 8LaNetwork Inc., which has its headquarters in Beijing's trendy Jianwai Soho district. Ho also appreciates how hard his mainland employees are willing to work -- as many as 90 hours a week. 

Taiwan clearly has lots to worry about, but it's also renowned for its resilience. Intel's John Antone compares Taiwan to long-distance runners who are being challenged but who are still in the lead. ``As long as they're committed to run very aggressively,'' he says, ``I don't see anyone catching them.'' Competitors be warned: Taiwan will do everything it can to stay in the race. 


Taiwan's Tech Clout
          
          Where the Island's Industries RANK Globally
          
          Taiwanese companies, from chip foundry TSMC to laptop maker Quanta, manufacture thousands of items essential to the global digital economy. Most appear under someone else's name -- and most are made in mainland China.
 #1 Provider of chip foundry services, with 70% of the market worth $8.9 BILLION

 #1 Producer of notebook PCs, with 72% of the market, worth $22 BILLION

 #1 Provider of LCD monitors, with 68% of the market, worth $14 BILLION

 #1 Producer of cable modems, with 66% of the market, worth $480 MILLION

 #1 In semi-conductor packaging with 36% share, worth $3.4 BILLION

 #2 Producer of TFT-LCD panels, with 35% of the market, worth $7.6 BILLION

 #2 In servers, with 33% of the market, worth $1.8 BILLION

 #2 Producer of digital still cameras, with 34% of the market, worth $2 BILLION

 #1 Producer of PDAs, with 79% of the market, worth $1.8 BILLION

 #1 Producer of wireless LAN equipment, with 83% of the market, worth $1.3 BILLION
Data: Market Intelligence Center, Taiwan Industrial Technology Research Institute
  


 Who's Who in Taiwan Inc.

 MORRIS CHANG
 Chairman
 TSMC
 Head of the world's leading foundry chipmaker, Chang is the father of Taiwan's semiconductor industry. TSMC recently settled its lawsuit against Shanghai rival SMIC and is the first Taiwanese chipmaker to get permission to open a Chinese fab. In China: 1,000 workers at a $900 million plant near Shanghai.

 TERRY GOU
 Chairman
 Hon Hai
 Hon Hai makes the PlayStation 2 for Sony, among many other products, and is the world's second-largest electronics contract manufacturer. With plans to expand into new areas like auto electronics, Gou is quickly closing the gap. In China: an estimated 100,000 workers in Guangdong and Kunshan.

 BARRY LAM
 Chairman
 Quanta
 Lam is the founder of the world's top producer of notebook PCs. Quanta has branched out into cell phones, servers, LCD panels, and TVs as profit margins fall in its computer business. In China: 20,000 workers at $48 million factory complex in Songjiang near Shanghai.

 Y.C. WANG
 Chairman
 Formosa Plastics
 The octogenarian head of Taiwan's leading industrial company, Wang, along with his family, also controls top electronics companies, such as smart-phone maker High Tech Computer, chipset designer Via Technologies, and memory-chip producer Nanya Technology.

 RAY CHEN
 President
 Compal
 Compal makes PCs for customers such as Dell and is now looking to diversify into higher-margin products like LCD TVs. Chen has shifted almost all PC production to the mainland. In China: 13,000 workers at a notebook factory in Kunshan.

 JONNEY SHIH
 Chairman
 Asustek
 Shih's company manufactures iPods for Apple and is the world's top producer of PC motherboards. Asustek is pushing aggressively to become a dominant player in all sorts of electronics, while developing its own brand of notebooks and smart phones. In China: 45,000 workers in Suzhou near Shanghai.

 K.Y. LEE
 Chairman and CEO
 BenQ
 Spun off four years ago from computer maker Acer, BenQ designs products for other companies but is more interested in promoting its own brand of TVs, monitors, and cell phones in the U.S., Europe, and, increasingly, China. In China: 8,300 employees in facilities worth $123 million.

 TSAI MING-KAI
 Chairman
 MediaTek
 With more than 25% of the world's fabless chip-design companies, Taiwan is second only to the U.S., and MediaTek is the island's top fabless company. MediaTek is the world's largest designer of DVD chips but is now looking to diversify into LCD TVs. MediaTek has an R&D center near New Delhi.

 ROBERT TSAO
 Chairman
 UMC
 Many of Taiwan's top chip-design houses were spun off from UMC, which is No. 2 in the foundry industry. Taiwan's government recently fined Tsao $96,000 for failing to disclose UMC's alliance with a mainland foundry. Tsao denies any wrongdoing.

 Data: BusinessWeek




  


 Taiwan Power Stats

 TAIWANESE GDP
 PER CAPITA: $14,300*

 CHINA GDP
 PER CAPITA: $1,200

 TAIWANESE INVESTMENT IN CHINA
 $100 BILLION

 CHINESE INVESTMENT IN TAIWAN
 $0

 U.S. PATENTS ISSUED TO TAIWAN COMPANIES
 5,299*

 U.S. PATENTS ISSUED TO CHINESE COMPANIES
 366*

 TAIWANESE FOREX RESERVES
 $251 BILLION

 CHINESE FOREX RESERVES
 $650 BILLION

 * 2003
 Data: Industrial Technology Research Institute, BW estimate, World Bank,ipIQ

  

photograph | Photograph: TEAMWORK BEN Q'S DESIGNERS, LED BY WANG, ARE HELPING TO BUILD THE BRAND PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HARTUNG | photograph | Photograph: HSINCHU A CAN-DO ATTITUDE | photograph | Photograph: CREATIVITY QUEEN HSUEH IS HELPING TAIWAN'S ENGINEERS ABANDON THEIR NARROW FOCUS PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID HARTUNG | photograph | Photograph: FAST REFLEXES ASUSTEK'S SHIH SAYS TAIWAN MUST MOVE QUICKLY PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HARTUNG | photograph | Photograph: NEIHU MALL TAIPEI'S HIGH-TECH HUB IS BUZZING PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICMILLETTE.COM 


Document BW00000020050512e15g00021


More Like This

 Article 459 *******************    



Technology Journal

Gateway's Waitt Is Leaving Board To `Start Things' 

By Gary McWilliams 
336 words 
19 May 2005
The Wall Street Journal
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Ted Waitt, who co-founded personal-computer marketer Gateway Inc. in an Iowa farmhouse 20 years ago and oversaw its rise to become the third-largest U.S. PC company by sales, is resigning as chairman and a director. 

Mr. Waitt, 42 years old, said he plans to leave the board today following the company's annual stockholders' meeting. He remains Gateway's largest individual investor. 

In a telephone interview, Mr. Waitt said he plans to spend more time on investments, especially in the areas of nanotechnology and biotechnology, and on the Waitt Family Foundation, which he and wife, Joan, started 12 years ago. 

Mr. Waitt said he has been investing in start-ups making ultrasmall devices and materials and intends to increase his focus there. Through his Avalon Capital Group Inc. investment fund, he has invested "tens of millions of dollars in the nanotechnology space," he said. Mr. Waitt wouldn't identify his investments. 

"It's a collection of businesses, more in the small machines and some of the materials than medical [applications]," he said. Mr. Waitt added he wouldn't immediately look to run a company. "I'm looking to start things," he said. 

After founding Gateway, Mr. Waitt capitalized on the company's Midwest roots, selling the latest technology to hobbyists and enthusiasts in cow-spotted boxes. But as the PC industry outgrew the hobbyists, Irvine, Calif.-based Gateway was never able to develop a large corporate following, and its home-PC sales suffered as the industry giants, No. 2 Hewlett-Packard Co. and market leader Dell Inc., launched price wars. 

Last year, Mr. Waitt turned over the company's day-to-day operations to current Chief Executive Officer Wayne R. Inouye, who shifted Gateway from direct sales to relying predominantly on retailers. 

Richard D. Snyder, who has been a director since 1991 and is a former Gateway president, is expected to be nominated as Gateway's new chairman. 

Document J000000020050519e15j0003s


More Like This

 Article 460 *******************    



Columnists

California Leavin'; Rich Karlgaard tells disgruntled residents in L.A. (and New York) that now's a good time to get out. 

Rich Karlgaard 
994 words 
23 May 2005
Forbes
39
Volume 175 Issue 11
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

One-third of Los Angeles residents now tell pollsters they are sick of their city. The percentage of L.A. malcontents has doubled in only two years, according to polls cited by Anne Taylor Fleming, a local essayist. Of course, one learns to take any poll analysis with a grain of salt. But my gut tells me this one has it right. The radio talk shows in L.A. these days yap constantly about the prices of houses, car commutes that never end and the breakdown of public services. What religion is to contemporary U.S. national politics--a bitter and hardening divide--illegal immigration is to California politics. Los Angeles has become the Fallujah of this ideological war zone. 

This column will leave the touchy subject of illegal immigration to the experts. Except to say this: Stricter border control, okay, but the only way out of this mess, the only permanent and peaceful answer to illegal immigration, is capitalistic reform south of the border. Mexicans need reasons to stay in Mexico: economic growth and jobs. 

As for the 33% of L.A. residents who hate their city and want to move out: Go for it! Now! Yes! There will never be a better year than 2005 in which to sell your house and pick up stakes. Here's why. 

-- The gap in house prices between greater Los Angeles and interior America is wider than ever. Go to coldwellbanker.comand see for yourself. Click on home price index. Type in $1 million and select Santa Monica, Calif., an upper-middle-class L.A. suburb, as your base-comparison city. Now select equivalent nice suburban areas across the country and see what comparable houses cost. Here's a sample: Scottsdale, Ariz., $348,000; West Chester/Chester County, Pa., $321,000; Overland Park, Kans., $190,000. You can see that L.A. residents are paying a high price for misery. 

-- Get out now because house prices on the urban coasts have peaked. That's the consensus of experts, based on ratios such as house prices to local incomes and mortgage payments to local rent prices. While I'm usually skeptical of expert consensus, this smells right. Rising interest rates have started to put the brakes on house appreciation. The number of "for sale" signs in California is exploding like spring pollen. 

-- For most people the quality of life in interior America is better. Okay, that's just one columnist's opinion. But I do travel about the country a great deal, giving speeches. Whenever I ask for a show of hands on how the locals feel about the economy--local and national--Texans, Minnesotans and New Mexicans invariably are bullish, while New Yorkers and Californians are bearish. I suspect the crushing costs of living on the urban coasts has something to do with this. That and the sense, especially in California, that the public infrastructure is falling to pieces. 

-- The sophistication gap between the coasts and interior America is shrinking. Sinclair Lewis, in 1930, became the first American novelist to win the Nobel Prize for Literature. He came to fame by skewering small towns (in Main Street) and medium-size heartland cities (in Babbitt). Prohibition was the Blue State-Red State divide of the 1920s, and satirists such as H. L. Mencken had a field day portraying the self-righteous sobersides of the prairies (who often drank homemade corn liquor behind the barn at night). That was then, but the image lingers. The truth is, Google, FedEx and free trade (which makes possible the dispatch of ripe avocados to Fargo, N.D. in the dead of winter) have made heartland living a much richer experience than it was a generation ago. This development is one of the underpromoted stories of American life and is utterly lost on Blue Staters. The last publicly expressible prejudice in the U.S. is that of Blue State sophisticates sounding off about Red Staters. The Red Staters, comfy in their $400,000 five-bedroom homes on two acres, don't much care. 

College Towns Will Boom 

Where to go in the Red States? For my money the best qualityof life at the cheapest price is to be had in university cities. That $1 million house in Santa Monica will cost you $280,000 in Charlottesville, Va.; $187,000 in Austin, Tex.; $134,000 in Knoxville, Tenn.; $193,000 in Provo, Utah; $203,000 in Athens, Ga.; $213,000 in Gainesville, Fla.; $246,000 in Fort Collins, Colo.; and $197,000 in Tucson, Ariz. Add another 50% to get into the better school districts--hey, that's still cheap compared with California or New York. Even in pricey California you can find bargains in the Red Counties in the foothills west of Merced, the newest University of California branch. 

Real estate investments in these university cities have a good chance of growing for four reasons. 

-- All of the cities mentioned above are situated in states that will outgrow the U.S. general population between 2000 and 2030 (see the census.gov Web site). The U.S. as a whole is expected to grow by 29.2% during the same period. 

-- University cities tend to be the faster-growing cities within the fastest-growing states. 

-- Employers hoping to tap younger, cheaper talent in IT, biotech and nanotech--but wanting to avoid the still-cheaper but riskier bets of offshoring to India and China--will find it in American heartland university cities. "Outsource to Wisconsin" will become a recurring theme in the decade ahead. 

-- Broadband wireless, such as Intel's Wi-Max and Qualcomm's CDMA standard, will soon close what information gap remains between America's big and small cities. 

Visit Rich Karlgaard's home page at www.life2where.com or email him at publisher@forbes.com. 

Document FB00000020050509e15n00006


More Like This

 Article 461 *******************    



Threadbare No More; Smart technology is helping revive the tattered textile industry--and putting Raleigh-Durham back on the map. 

Mark Tatge 
2,249 words 
23 May 2005
Forbes
130
Volume 175 Issue 11
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

Smart technology in North Carolina is helping revive the tattered textile industry-and putting Raleigh-Durham back on the map. 

Inside a small classroom at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, three Ph.D. students and two engineering professors wrestle with the three Cs-calculations, charts and cloth. Cloth? Yes, they're applying their considerable brainpower to building a better T shirt. 

Not just any T shirt. This one has tiny silver particles containing electronic transmitters that are grounded, pasted and then screen-printed into nonwoven fabric. The shirt can "talk" to satellites or monitor your respiration and heartbeat. You won't be able to pick up this item at the Gap or the Sharper Image for a while, not until the researchers figure out how to pack in miniature batteries to power the transmitters. Still, the project, funded by the National Textile Center-a consortium of universities with federal funding for research-has already sparked the interest of the U.S. Army, Nike, Sara Lee's apparel unit and the medical community. "We are on the lunatic fringe," laughs Edward Grant, one of the profs and director of NC State's Center for Robotics & Intelligent Machines. 

A small revolution is underway. Grant is one of 345 or so scientists in Raleigh-Durham, N.C. working to reinvent and revive the American textile industry. At $348 billion a year it is the nation's eleventh-largest manufacturing contributor to GDP-and it's fraying badly. North Carolina has lost nearly two-thirds of its textile jobs, 173,000 workers, since 1991. The recent migration of textile looms from the U.S. to Asia, in search of cheap labor, was as inevitable as their migration in the previous century from New England to the South. The departure of American jobs will accelerate with the recent lifting of quotas on Chinese textiles; such exports surged 29% in the first quarter of 2005 from a year earlier. 

A partial salvation for the business, if not for the employees, may lie in a new generation of synthetic textiles. These fabrics are melted and pressed, not woven or sewn, and can be much stronger than traditional cloths. They have little or no natural fiber but are manufactured from plastics-petroleum derivatives like polypropylene, polyethylene, rayon, polyester-with wood pulp or cotton mixed in to improve absorbency. Cheaper to make, such products require just a handful of workers at a single plant to produce 15,000 metric tons of nonwovens a year. 

Already, 300 U.S. and foreign companies in Raleigh-Durham, small and large, are exploiting university-created technology. They're making mundane products like disposable diapers, wipes and kitchen mops. And they're turning out some very cool stuff, too, including fabrics that block bullets; cleanse themselves of anthrax spores, pesticides, chemicals and body odor; put out flames; or conduct electricity. Such fibers can be made as tough as steel cable but at a fraction of the weight, opening new possibilities for building roads, bridges and aircraft. 

Such enterprise has helped propel the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill area to the number two spot on our list of Best Places for Business and Careers. Thanks to the mix of public and private support for these new technologies, the region has some of the lowest costs of doing business in the nation-and a highly skilled labor force. (For the quality of life downtown, see "Deadville") The recovery has taken place despite a calamitous high-tech bust, which has wiped out 29,000 positions, one-third of all information technology jobs, since 2000. With Research Triangle Park at its center, the region was once a magnet for the likes of IBM, GlaxoSmithkline, Nortel, Cisco and SAS. Today it draws such old manufacturers as DuPont, Kimberly-Clark, Freudenberg, BASF, 3M and Procter & Gamble. In return for nominal grants to NC State, they're getting cheap R&D. 

The university has given birth to a few innovative startups. Among them is 3Tex, in suburban Cary, which came up with a novel way of weaving synthetic fibers. Adding resin results in a fabric tough enough to stop armor-piercing shells or to form the basis of I beams, truck bumpers and boat hulls. It all comes off a 3-D weaving machine-a new twist on an ancient process that weaves fiberglass, stainless steel or polyethylene in traditional interlacing. It was developed under contract for NASA by Mansour Mohamed, a professor emeritus from NC State. In the mid-1980s the space agency was looking to strengthen the shell of its Mars spacecraft. But because NASA never used the idea, Mohamed licensed the technology from NC State and launched 3Tex in 1996 with $25 million from venture partners. The company has sales of $2 million and 28 employees. 

Thirty miles west of Cary, on the outskirts of Durham, is the 203,000-square-foot Freudenberg plant. Headquartered in Weinheim, Germany, Freudenberg is a $5 billion (sales) family-owned business known mostly for lubricants, household products, building systems and flexible circuit boards. But it's also the world's largest producer of nonwovens ($1.4 billion worth last year), accomplished with the help of its Novolon product line, first developed at NC State. Its fibers are lightweight, breathable and durable and can be easily formed into crush-resistant shapes-ideal for filtration, apparel, insulation and home furnishings. 

You can't make this stuff on a Jacquard loom. Plastics used in most nonwovens are typically heated to 460 degrees Fahrenheit and blown onto a belt, where an adhesive is added. The fibers are then pressed together with heated rollers, forming a web. Once started, the machines, which resemble printing presses, must run 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, or the hot molten plastic hardens, leading to costly repairs. That puts nonwoven makers under intense pressure to come up with new products to keep the $25 million to $40 million machines humming constantly. Built on a 160-acre site, cut into a thick forest of yellow pines, the Freudenberg plant employs 300 workers. Nearly all of them work in areas off the manufacturing floor. Labor runs just 5% to 6% of the total cost of goods sold, compared with 25% for an average weaving operation. "This is the way we can compete with China," says Dr. Walter Chappas, who heads Freudenberg's Novolon division. 

It's catching. Over the last year and a half, seven nonwoven textile companies have announced plans to expand or open new plants in the area, investing $241 million in new factories. The newcomers include Japan's Livedo Corp., Jacob Holm Industries from Switzerland and two Israeli outfits, N.R. Spuntech Industries and AFG Wipes. Most of their business is in personal care goods-from cleaning towels to baby wipes and incontinence products. "We liked the warm welcome we received and that there is a textile tradition in North Carolina," says Carl Nowiszewski, vice president and general manager of Spuntech. 

We're not talking corporate welfare. In a more or less typical offer the state and county gave the $60 million (sales) Spuntech $500,000 in incentives to relocate its U.S. operations from Bloomfield, Conn. to Roxboro. The 220,000-square-foot plant, slated to open later this year, will use spun-laced technology, a method of spraying water at 3,000 pounds per square inch to entangle synthetic fibers-rather than using heat; the finished fabric is strong and soft. Spuntech will create 60 new jobs. Some of them likely will be filled by graduates of NC State's College of Textiles. 

Spuntech and other arrivistes can also draw on a passel of trade groups. The Raleigh-Durham-Greensboro triangle is home to the Association of the Nonwoven Fabrics Industry, Cotton Inc., which represents 31,000 U.S. cotton growers and importers as well as the American Association of Textile Chemists & Colorists. 

Most research takes place at the College of Textiles. One of its former deans, David Chaney, helped develop Astroturf; a scientist at the school invented a biodegradable wound dressing extracted from crab-shell fiber. At the rolling campus on Raleigh's west side 800 undergraduate and graduate students work with companies, helping to solve everyday problems like reducing energy use, improving supply-chain management, using eco-friendly dyes and developing better fibers. In pilot labs corporate clients can test their ideas before committing lots of capital, by conducting small runs of new products. 

Corporations pay nominally for this privilege via an industry consortium called the Nonwovens Cooperative Research Center. The nonprofit was started in 1991 with a $300,000 grant from the National Science Foundation. Its budget is now $2 million a year, mostly from 60 dues-paying companies. Those with sales of more than $25 million shell out $20,000 per annum; smaller outfits ante up $2,500. It's a lot of buying power: For a $20,000 investment, companies get an equivalent of $1.5 million in research a year. "A pretty good deal," says Behnam Pourdeyhimi, associate dean at the College of Textiles. 

Some join just to keep tabs on rivals. "If you had your most significant competitors sitting at the table, you would want to be there," says Pourdeyhimi, who's fighting to expand the cooperative's research funding. After taking over in 1999, Pourdeyhimi has raised $7 million to build pilot manufacturing labs, getting companies to either donate equipment or give the college below-market-rate financing. Companies now pay to use those labs and fund individual projects. A sore point: When the researchers uncover a new idea, licensing fees go to the university, not the College of Textiles. "That is something we are trying to change," Pourdeyhimi says. 

Under pressure to shrink overhead and telescope the new-product cycle, big companies are more likely to turn to universities or small companies to help develop ideas. Procter & Gamble has worked with NC State using imaging software to test the properties of finished nonwovens. But to mass-produce its Swiffer dust mop-an electrostatic charge applied to its nonwoven pad attracts dust, crumbs and pet hair from hard surfaces-P&G hired Polymer Group Inc., an $845 million (sales) company with a plant in Benson, N.C., 29 miles south of Raleigh. 

In nearby Greensboro, International Textile Group, a collection of rolled-fabric makers bought out of bankruptcy by financier Wilbur Ross, is coming up with new products for affiliated company Nano-Tex, which develops textile applications on the nano scale. ITG has turned to NC State and Pourdeyhimi for advice. "It's all very blue sky right now," says Renée DeLack Hultin, president of the Americas for Nano-Tex. Such nanotechnology involves engineering carbon-based polymer molecules, one-millionth the size of a grain of sand, that attach to fibers to wick away moisture and resist stains, water and static. The process is already widely used in apparel and home furnishings. If you've recently bought a tie with a Brooks Brothers label or shirts or chinos from the Gap or Eddie Bauer, you're probably wearing Nano-Tex treated fibers. 

Nonwovens are the weave of the future. Already generating $24 billion a year in worldwide sales, the segment is forecast to expand 7% to 8% a year, twice the rate of traditional textiles. The Association of the Nonwoven Fabrics Industry says the U.S. is playing catch-up, accounting for one-third of those sales, mostly of disposable wipes and diapers. Other applications beckon. There are big bucks to be made in surgical and medical fabrics-gross profits for surgical packs, gowns, caps, masks, sponges, bandages and tape run 25% to 30%-and in allergen- and pollution-trapping filters for heating and air-conditioning (50% to 60%), both made by 3M. 

The rapid shift to high-tech fibers worries cotton growers. Their trade group, Cotton Inc., spends $20 million a year developing fabric fibers, colors and finishes and another $46 million to ensure that garmentmakers keep using cotton. The strategy has worked for decades; cotton has 60% of the $172 billion apparel market, says the NPD Group. 

That can't last. Chemical giants like DuPont and BASF are eyeing apparel in a big way. So is ExxonMobil, the largest supplier of raw materials. Cotton has already lost out to synthetics in diapers, food service napkins, feminine hygiene products and facial wipes. In U.S. hospitals, 85% to 90% of textile products are nonwoven. Clothing is the next battleground. 

Cotton Inc. isn't giving up without a fight. To help talk up the virtues of the old fiber, the group recently hired Janet O'Regan, who spent 20 years in sales and marketing at Freudenberg, including a stint in nonwoven intralinings used in shoulder pads, waistbands and the like. O'Regan has turned to NC State's Pourdeyhimi for help. One possibility: a new cotton seal of approval, applied to nonwovens that meet certain specifications, including a small cotton content. "This is a defensive move," O'Regan concedes. "We see a huge opportunity here." Isn't cotton simply more expensive to produce than nonwoven synthetics? "Unless oil prices keep rising," snaps O'Regan. 

The mundane parts of the U.S. textile business are doomed. But there's room at the top, and Raleigh-Durham is groping for it. 

Document FB00000020050509e15n0000p


More Like This

 Article 462 *******************    


Personal Tech/The Frontier Within

Enhancing the Warriors 

Joel Garreau 
741 words 
30 May 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
104
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

Arguably the most aggressive pursuer of human enhancement is DARPA, the Pentagon's advanced research agency. In 2002 and 2003 it granted the author unusual access to many of its program managers and scientists. On these pages is a sampling of human-enhancement programs DARPA is sponsoring in labs and collaborations around the U.S.; media access to much of the work is now curtailed. 

An Energizer Bunny in fatigues 

GOAL: Soldiers who perform at unprecedented levels of physical intensity and maintain that intensity for extended periods. 

HOW IT IS MEANT TO WORK: One project seeks to boost the power and efficiency of muscle cells (for details, see main story). Alternative approaches include controlling body temperature and tapping the energy stored in fat. Like athletes, soldiers get tired and slow down when they overheat; DARPA is testing gloves and booties that wick off excess heat from exercise, thereby stabilizing soldiers' core temperatures. To tap the energy in fat, DARPA is funding research on how to trigger a fat-burning mode that the body usually enters only when deprived of carbohydrates during starvation. 

The sleep-free soldier 

GOAL: Troops who can function effectively without sleep for a week. 

HOW IT IS MEANT TO WORK: Today's techniques for keeping people awake usually involve the loss of cognitive ability. A DARPA-backed project at Wake Forest University centers on a novel class of medicines known as ampakines, which are thought to reverse chemical imbalances in the sleep-deprived brain. At Salk Institute, a project seeks to harness a natural antioxidant found in cocoa (Mars, the candy company, is a collaborator on that one). Scientists at the University of Wisconsin and other research centers are studying birds that migrate for days without sleep. Other groups are studying dolphins and whales, air-breathing mammals that would drown if they slept as we do and have evolved an ability to let one portion of the brain sleep at a time; DARPA hopes to enable troops to do the same. A related project at Columbia University is studying why some pathways in the human brain are much less susceptible to sleep deprivation than others; troops might be trained to use the resilient pathways to stay alert. 

Control bleeding 

GOAL: Soldiers who are able to stop bleeding at will. 

HOW IT IS MEANT TO WORK: Several DARPA projects aim at severe wounds whose bleeding can't be stopped by direct pressure. Normally, blood clots in response to natural chemical cascades initiated by the nervous system; one proposed approach is to condition soldiers to consciously release the triggering chemicals--a soldier would be able to stop bleeding by concentrating on his wound. Another approach involves injecting vast numbers of nanotech magnets that would circulate harmlessly in the blood. In the event of injury, a special magnetic field passed over the wound would cause the magnets to align, forming a dam around which clotting would occur. 

Pain control 

GOAL: Soldiers who can simply block ongoing pain from an injury. 

HOW IT IS MEANT TO WORK: The body has more than one neurological pathway for pain. The pain that causes you to jerk away your hand when you touch a hot stove involves a different pathway than the pain you'll feel later from swelling and inflammation. A "pain vaccine" under development by Rinat Neuroscience, a Genentech spinoff for which DARPA provided early funding, is designed to soak up secretions of a molecule called nerve growth factor that's necessary for the transmission of the second kind of pain. The vaccine is intended to remain effective for at least 30 days. 

Limb regeneration 

GOAL: Troops who, if wounded, can tap an innate mechanism to accelerate healing without scars and regrow lost limbs. 

HOW IT IS MEANT TO WORK: A blastema--also called a regeneration bud--is a mass of undifferentiated cells that can develop into an organ or appendage. In salamanders and other lower vertebrates, blastemas regenerate severed limbs; young children sometimes regrow severed fingertips. DARPA wants to harness the genetic mechanism at work in blastemas to help injured troops. The research, once viewed as extremely speculative even by DARPA standards, lately gained renewed attention. 

See also related article on page 101 of same issue. 

COLOR PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: SABAH ARAR--AFP/GETTY IMAGES TWO COLOR PHOTOS: SCOTT PETERSON--GETTY IMAGES COLOR PHOTO: CHRIS HONDROS-- GETTY IMAGES COLOR PHOTO: STEPHANIE SINCLAIR--CORBIS 


Document FORTU00020050516e15u00012


More Like This

 Article 463 *******************    



Manager's Journal

Let's Get Nanotech Right 

By Fred Krupp and Chad Holliday 
789 words 
14 June 2005
The Wall Street Journal
B2
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

THE SCIENCE OF the small is raising big expectations. New materials a tenth the size of a human cell, engineered atom by atom, promise to revolutionize everything from energy production to medicine. We've seen many extravagant predictions surrounding this new world called nanotechnology: A single slender cable built from nanoparticles might carry the world's total electrical supply. Environmental burdens might be lifted by nano-pores that desalinate water or nano-cages that trap bacteria. As with new "miracle" technologies in the past, there is much speculation regarding how "nanotech" can transform the world and national economies. Governments and private investors are rushing to make major investments in projects bearing the "nano" prefix. 

What is nanotechnology really? Is it a fundamentally new science or just an extension of the technologies already used to create new materials and products? Could the novel properties that make nanoparticles so promising affect human health and ecosystems in a different way than more familiar larger particles? These and other questions must be answered. The hype surrounding nanotech drowns out the need for sound, disciplined research and commercialization guided by thoughtful regulatory standards. 

We've been here before. A new technology is heralded as the "next big thing." Companies are created. R&D budgets expand, and investors' eyes gleam at the prospect of new markets. Then two or 10 or 20 years later, when the technology is in widespread use, other effects become evident. 

For example, before 1929, the toxic gases ammonia, methyl chloride, and sulfur dioxide were used as refrigerants, but fatal accidents occurred because of leakage. In 1928, a new family of non-toxic chemicals, chlorofluorocarbons, was invented and became the standard for refrigerants. Only decades later did we recognize that the release of CFCs was dissolving the earth's ozone layer. 

Unfortunately there are many similar examples, including DDT and leaded gasoline, where we later learned of various unintended consequences of initially promising technologies. 

An early and open examination of the potential risks of a new product or technology is not just good common sense -- it's good business strategy. We need to make sure this assessment takes place now for today's "next big thing" -- nanotechnology. With the right mix of voluntary corporate leadership, coordinated research, and informed regulation, we can reap the benefits of this promising technology while reducing the likelihood of unintended consequences. 

Given potential liability and market risks, industry, universities, government and public interest groups should collaborate to determine what testing is necessary for new nanoproducts. Businesses should conduct the needed testing before new products enter commercial use. Products that use nanomaterials are already in our stores. Good product stewardship requires a commitment to identifying and managing any potential risks. A collaborative effort could set interim standards for nanotechnology around the world while regulations are under development. 

At the same time, our government also needs to invest more seriously in the research necessary to understand fully nanoparticle behavior. Funding to study health and environmental risk represents only 4% of the proposed federal investment in nanotech and becomes vanishingly small when you factor in private investment. Government spending on nanotechnology should be reprioritized so that approximately 10% goes to this purpose. Compared to the estimated $1 trillion market for nanotechnology, this would be a wise insurance policy on such a high-potential investment. 

Lastly, both public and business interests will inevitably compel regulatory protection to ensure product safety and to create a level playing field for business. Current regulations, designed for a world before nanotechnology, should be reassessed and changed as needed to account for the novel properties of nanomaterials. Business and government may need new approaches to make sure workers, consumers, the public and the environment are adequately protected. 

In the end, it all comes down to this: Can we reap the benefits while minimizing the risks? We believe we can. The key steps are identifying and addressing the risks. We encourage those with an interest and a stake in nanotech to collaborate in the development of responsible safety standards and to exercise great care in the launch of new materials. We urge the federal government to adequately fund the agencies that need to understand nanotechnology so they can create thoughtful and informed regulations for this exciting field of scientific discovery and commercial promise. 

--- 

Mr. Krupp is president of Environmental Defense and Mr. Holliday is chairman and CEO of DuPont. 

--- 

Submissions should be sent to managers.journal@wsj.com 

--- 

Journal Link: To view an archive of past Manager's Journal columns, please go to CareerJournal.com. 

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Nanotechnology Concerns Closely Studied" -- WSJ June 24, 2005) 

Document J000000020050614e16e0000n


More Like This

 Article 464 *******************    



The Future of Tech -- Semiconductors

More Life For Moore's Law; Chipmakers can't keep using the same tricks to boost speed. New ones are coming 

By Adam Aston 
1,440 words 
20 June 2005
BusinessWeek
108
Volume 3938
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

In the race to produce ever-faster chips, it sometimes feels like enough is enough. Our desktops have sufficient horsepower to simulate the birth of galaxies if anyone wants to. Phones and PDAs are stuffed with fascinating communications tricks that few people will ever use. So do we still need Moore's Law -- the precept that chip performance should double roughly every 18 months? 

The electronics industry says yes, for reasons of cost and capability. There are still a few billion people on the planet who have yet to purchase a cell phone, let alone a PC. So if chipmakers can keep Moore's Law on track for a few more years, the digital amenities that rich countries take for granted will be cheap enough for everyone to buy, brainy enough to understand requests in natural spoken language, and even to answer back. 

Now more than ever, though, upholding Moore's Law will require imagination. So far chip companies have relied mostly on one clever trick: They shrink the transistors on chips so that electrons have less distance to travel, thereby speeding up the processing of data. But that trick is getting harder to perform. In the 1990s, shrinking led reliably to faster speeds. It was ``the cream-puff era,'' says Gary Smith, chief analyst at Gartner Dataquest in San Jose, Calif. Today, though, circuits are packed so closely that chips are heating up, and performance is starting to suffer. That's one reason giants such as Intel Corp., No. 52 on this year's Info Tech 100, and IBM, No. 44, have fallen behind schedule in launching new generations of microprocessors in recent years. 

Even so, chipmakers think they can still pull off a few more generations of shrinking before they hit the wall. They're trying new materials and production tools, and most experts see an orderly progression deep into nanotechnology. Today's circuit lines measure about 90 nanometers in width -- or 90 billionths of a meter. This year and next they'll go down to 65 nm, then 45 nm by 2010, 32 nm by 2013, and 22 nm by 2016, says International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors, an industry research group. After that, says Paolo A. Gargini, Intel's director for technology strategy, ``it's unclear what will come next.'' 

Fortunately, shrinking is just one way to solve the problem. Another strategy that is already moving into the marketplace involves linking several microprocessor ``cores'' together on the same semiconductor. This will require overhauling the software running on the chip. In addition, engineers are devising new ways to stack circuitry, layer upon layer, into multi-story, 3D structures. Together, these developments should sustain momentum in the $227 billion global chip sector for years, if not decades. They could even lead to a quantum leap in performance. ``We're going to see a lot of evolution happening very fast,'' says IBM's Philip Emma, manager of systems technology and microarchitecture. 

Among these different approaches, the first superfast chips coming out of the gate are the multicore devices that boost performance by replacing a single high-speed processor with two or more cores that don't need to be so speedy. ``A 300-pound lineman can generate a lot of power,'' says IBM's Emma. ``But two 160-pound guys can do the same work with less overall effort.'' On your desktop, this means replacing a single 3 gigahertz chip with two 2.1 GHz cores. Combined, they can move data faster using less energy while running cooler. 

Already being sold by Advanced Micro Devices, IBM, and Intel for use in desktop PCs, multicore processors have another advantage: Their behavior is well understood. For decades companies have built supercomputers that function on this principle, with packs of processors working together to raise computing speeds. Still, there's a world of difference between these two segments of the market. IBM's world-beating Blue Gene/L supercomputer boasts 65,000 processors working in unison. In contrast, microprocessors in personal computers are likely to peak at around eight cores, predicts Emma. 

Chip Skyscrapers 

A more radical reinvention of chips is on drawing boards. Three-dimensional, or stacked, semiconductors promise dramatic performance gains simply by arranging chip functions vertically -- like the floors of a building. Consumer-electronics makers have already taken a step in this direction, notes Hans Stork, chief technology officer at Texas Instruments Inc., No. 66, in Dallas. In portable devices such as phones and PDAs, where real estate is limited, individual chips often are stacked on top of one another, separated by circuit boards and connected by millimeter-long wires. 

Why should stacking chips in this fashion increase speed and reduce power consumption? James Jian Qiang Lu of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., explains it this way: If you slice a one-cm square processor into four pieces and directly connect critical functions in a stack, you can cut the maximum distance that electrons have to travel from 20,000 microns to as little as 10. The shorter path ramps up speed and also means that less power is needed to keep the electrons flowing, which in turn lowers heat output. Lu figures that by stacking the elements of one of today's two-dimensional, 90-nm chips you could achieve computing speeds comparable to the 32-nm chips that are set to arrive in about six years. 

Still, it may take that long for all the technical hurdles confronting 3D chips to be resolved. Just as constructing a skyscraper is harder than building a house, creating 3D chips will require the development of complex 3D design tools and methods. Lu's research group is focusing on the assembly process, which will also be much more complicated. To glue one chip layer to another means removing the tough structural base material to expose the chip's underside, then lining it up and attaching the layers so that micron-sized contacts touch. 

The physical reorganization of chip architecture will force a similar upheaval in the software world. Multicore designs work most efficiently when software can chop up a task and divide it into batches of work that can be processed simultaneously, in parallel. Unfortunately, little of today's software is optimized for this, whether it's the programs embedded on the chip itself or the word processor on your desktop. Once optimized, however, software performance can improve dramatically, says Shahrokh Daijavad, software lead for next-generation computing systems at IBM. That's especially true of media and gaming software, he notes. 

But converting all that software is bound to take years. Developing software for multicore processing ``is one of the hardest things you learn in computer science,'' says Daijavad. Seeing the challenge, Intel has committed 3,000 of its 10,000 software programmers to help accelerate the shift to multicore designs. 

For all the handwringing over the demands of Moore's Law, chipmakers say they have faced this abyss before and survived. Last year, when the industry moved from 130-nm to 90-nm lines, there were wrenching interruptions in chip deliveries. But in this case, as in every setback since 1965, when Gordon E. Moore first penned his famous law, the industry has found a way around the roadblocks. Even the now-retired Moore concedes that he's consistently impressed by the industry's ability to keep moving ahead. Some of the new tricks emerging today are bound to deliver gains that will impress Moore yet again. 

Tiny Alternatives 

For 50 years, chipmakers have been shrinking circuit lines in order to double semiconductor performance roughly every 18 months, in keeping with Moore's Law. But these minuscule lines can't be shrunk forever, so chipmakers are trying the following novel approaches: 

MULTICORE PROCESSORS 

Chipmakers have started replacing the single powerful microprocessor at the heart of a PC with two or more simpler chips, or ``cores.'' These work together to boost performance while cutting power consumption. 

TURBOCHARGED SOFTWARE 

The programs that make computers indispensable are being customized to do their work in smaller batches quickly -- in parallel -- using the new multicore systems. 

TALLER CHIPS 

Engineers are creating 3D chips that lift performance by bringing the brainy ``logic'' portions of the device closer to elements that handle memory and other functions. Result: A multi-story silicon stack that can run faster and cooler than ordinary chips. 

photograph | Photograph: MOORE: His law has enjoyed a 40-year run PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD MORGENSTEIN 


Document BW00000020050616e16k00005


More Like This

 Article 465 *******************    


FORTUNE 75/BIG BETS

Billion-Dollar Bets Has corporate America lost its nerve? Not when companies like GE and GM are taking huge gambles on the future. 

ALEX TAYLOR IIIREPORTER ASSOCIATES Dana Castillo; Jia Lynn Yang 
3,982 words 
27 June 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
138
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

When was the last time you heard about a bold CEO who has bet the company on some big, hairy project that may never pay off? Has the age of compliance turned executives into wimps with a calculator in one pocket and a user's guide to Sarbanes-Oxley in the other? 

Sometimes it does seem that risk has gone the way of Bell Labs and the three-martini lunch. That's why consumer products companies release a bewildering array of brand extensions--Crest Whitening Expressions Refreshing Vanilla Mint toothpaste, anyone?--and movie studios crank out sequels and prequels and remakes. CEOs with cash to burn sleep more easily when they use it to buy back stock. The age of the corporate buccaneer is gone. 

Look a little deeper, though, and it becomes apparent that when competition, stagnation, or investor pressure up the ante, 21st- century executives are just as capable of laying down a high-stakes gamble as any 19th-century robber baron. After losing ground to Airbus through the 1990s, for example, Boeing launched a revolutionary new airliner, the 787, made with reinforced plastic, like the stuff used in Formula One cars. With margins vanishing in its traditional hardware business, IBM reorganized itself as a service company using Internet technologies--spending a cool $10 billion over ten years to make the transition. 

Jeff Immelt, the CEO of General Electric, lives with decisions made three CEOs ago, when Fred Borch poured money into computers, nuclear power, and jet engines in the late 1960s. The first two were stinkers--but the third has given Immelt the lift to place bets that could pay off for his successors. Each investment involves a large dollop of uncertainty, which Wall Street hates. But then, Wall Street hated the 707 and the 747--until it loved them. 

For some companies, gambling is a way of life. Driven by the imperatives of Moore's law, Intel is spending nearly $5 billion this year to make chips with more circuits--and it will do the same in 2007, 2009, and 2011. Other companies make big bets once in a lifetime. Verizon and SBC Communications, for example, are investing billions to replace old copper-wire networks with fiber optics. 

Innovation, says Immelt, is the "central necessity" of modern business. What follows are accounts of how five companies are pursuing that necessity. 

Fuel cells 

Take any new technology, goes an inside joke among Detroit's car guys, and General Motors has probably been running it on its test track for years. The problem has been getting it on the road. GM has a rich history of innovation. The company invented the self- cleaning exhaust pipe and has recently done well with innovative onboard telematic gadgets like OnStar. But too often it has found itself lapped--or worse, stalled at the start. For example, GM blew $1 billion on battery-powered cars in the 1990s before it discovered- -surprise!--that no one wanted to buy a car they couldn't drive to work and back without recharging. Then there was the hybrid disaster. GM had worked on those gasoline/electric cars for years, then shifted its emphasis in the late 1990s to concentrate on hydrogen-powered fuel cells--only to be embarrassed when Toyota reaped a public relations and sales bonanza with the hybrid Prius. 

Now GM is betting big on cars powered by fuel cells. The technical and economic challenges involved in stripping electrons from hydrogen atoms to create electricity and leave only water in the exhaust are immense. Moreover, competitors like DaimlerChrysler and Toyota are also pouring money into the pipeline. So are governments. The recent U.S. energy bill, for example, allocated $4 billion for research into hydrogen. It is impossible to say who is ahead. No question, though: This time GM is in for the long haul. It has already spent $1 billion on the project and anticipates spending another $1 billion by 2010, when it hopes to have designed a fuel- cell-powered car that is affordable when produced at high volumes. 

GM created its first fuel-cell vehicle in 1968 and continued to dabble with the technology into the 1980s before backing off when progress slowed. In the mid-1990s, Harry Pearce, then vice chairman, gave the go-ahead to start again when independent researchers began to report breakthroughs. Larry Burns, 53, who holds a doctorate in civil engineering, is GM's vice president of R&D--and the man whose job it is to make fuel cells work. One of his first acts when he got the job in 1998 was to drive a fuel-cell-powered Opel minivan. He did not enjoy the experience, describing it as hot, noisy, and impractical. Still, Burns is a believer: "We felt that we had a chance--with hydrogen and fuel cells, electronic controls, and software--to radically change the automobile." 

Under Burns, GM has been spending up to $150 million a year on fuel-cell research, a figure that is growing briskly as the researchers get excited. Burns says GM has been able to raise the amount of power stored in the fuel cell by 700% in the past six years, as well as increase its durability, reliability, and ability to start in cold weather. Its latest model, a five-passenger SUV called the Sequel, will go 300 miles between hydrogen fill-ups, and do it quietly and smoothly. 

GM CEO Rick Wagoner calls the fuel cell "the biggest thing to hit the automobile in the last 100 years." It is the single largest item in the car giant's R&D budget. Far more than money is at stake in this project, however. If GM falters, it will mean a major setback in the race to reinvent the automobile--and reinforce the idea that GM has lost the innovative edge that once made it great. 

Kimberlite diamonds 

Finding buried treasure is a childish fantasy, usually reserved for the very young or the wildly impractical. But a team of mining professionals and diamond experts believe they're about to strike it rich in the wilds of western Canada. They may be sitting on the largest diamond mine in the world, with potential deposits of 70 million carats. That's equal to half of all the diamonds produced anywhere in 2003. On the other hand, the consortium might be digging a very big, very expensive hole. Finding out will cost them roughly $100 million over the next few years alone. 

Kimberlites--pipes of volcanic rock where diamonds were formed 100 million years ago--are prevalent in African countries like Botswana, South Africa, and the Congo. But nobody seriously hunted for them in Saskatchewan until the late 1980s, when geologists prospected the Fort a la Corne region, about 100 miles south of Saskatoon. The results were intriguing enough that a joint venture between De Beers Canada and Kensington Resources, a Canadian mining company, decided to dig more deeply. By the late 1990s the partners had identified 9.5 billion tons of potentially diamond-bearing kimberlite spread over 85 square miles. 

Looking for diamonds in kimberlite is like searching for a needle in a haystack using a pick and shovel. The tops of the kimberlites, some 100 feet across, generally lie several hundred feet below the earth's surface. So where are the diamonds? Inside, sprinkled randomly. Finding them therefore requires sifting through enormous quantities of dirt and rock: Diamonds may be glamorous, but finding them is not. For every 100 tons of material, the venture expects to find 12 carats of diamonds, worth about $2,000 wholesale. Some 70% of the diamonds are expected to be good enough to sell as gems. The largest stone found to date in preliminary test borings weighs 10.5 carats and could be worth $10,000 in its raw form. 

To ensure that they dig in the right places, the prospectors have laboriously drilled 349 holes in the kimberlite, ranging in diameter from several inches to three feet. The sheer volume of material is enormous. Two of the kimberlites are the largest in the world, containing 50 million tons of matter. The joint venture controls 63 similar deposits. 

The partners are spending about $30 million a year on advanced exploration and feasibility studies, and they are moving ahead on environmental and other approvals. Still, they won't make a decision on whether to go on digging until 2008, and receiving permits and constructing the mine could delay the start of actual operations until 2013. Construction of the mine alone will cost $1 billion. 

Despite the long lead times, the partners believe they are playing into a rising market. Spending on diamonds has been slack for nearly two decades and has lagged well behind that of other luxury goods, but growing incomes in India and China, as well as the successful marketing of new kinds of jewelry, are expected to boost demand during the next several years. Since De Beers largely controls the market, it can introduce new supply as it chooses and thus has little fear of pushing down prices. Last year, for example, demand surpassed supply, driving diamond prices up 20%. 

If prices (or fashions) falter, however, or if Fort a la Corne proves less rich than initially thought, the partners will be, quite literally, in a hole of their own making. 

Joint Strike Fighter 

In the defense industry, one contract can determine a company's outlook for decades. And if that contract also happens to be the most expensive in Pentagon history, well, the stakes just get that much higher. At Lockheed Martin, all eyes are on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, an aircraft on which the U.S. military plans to spend $220 billion over the next decade. 

The fighter's biggest selling point is its affordability: At $44.8 million for the basic version, it costs 60% less than the F/A- 22, Lockheed's most advanced jet. The U.S. and Britain have already signed on for 2,593. Other countries may buy as many as 3,000, according to Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst with Teal Group in northern Virginia. Lockheed is betting that it can keep the JSF's costs down at every phase of the plane's life and still deliver a superior product. At stake is dominance in the export market. "We have the potential to be the airplane that's in everybody's air force," said Tom Burbage, head of the JSF program. But should the cost per plane creep up, potential buyers will balk and cut back or cancel orders, pushing the price of each jet higher and thus reducing demand further. Lockheed would then be looking at a much smaller pile of chips. 

The project began in 1993 when the Pentagon started to solicit designs for a plane that could replace its aging F-16 fleet. It had to be able to evade radar; be accepted by the Marines, Air Force, and Navy; and be able to land three different ways: vertically, onto a runway, and onto a carrier. 

After McDonnell Douglas dropped out, a bare-knuckles brawl ensued between Boeing and Lockheed Martin. In October 2001, Lockheed won, effectively pushing Boeing out of the tactical-fighter business. There are now 8,000 people working on the JSF, including partners Northrop Grumman and BAE. The first F-35 is expected to fly in 2006. 

In one corner of a mile-long factory in Fort Worth, engineers are peering inside a molded hulk of metal --the cockpit of the JSF-- atop a bright-blue platform. At the height of production for the F- 16--the most successful military aircraft in history--the Fort Worth factory turned out a plane a day. Lockheed managers, their fingers crossed, say they expect demand for the JSF to be just as brisk. When will they know if they're on to a winner? "Seven to eight years," says Aboulafia. In the defense business, technical prowess counts--but so does patience. 

Siberian oil 

Drilling for oil is one of the scariest, costliest, hold-your- breath-and-go-for-it gambles in all business. Oil companies have no choice: They must replace the crude they pump out of the ground or go slowly out of business. Outside of places like Saudi Arabia, where the sands fairly drip with oil, the easy stuff is long gone. Producers therefore must take ever greater risks--financial, logistical, market, political--to keep a steady flow. Consider Russia. With reserves estimated at 171 billion barrels--a fifth of world supply--it is the largest oil producer outside the Middle East. Its deposits in eastern Siberia are especially attractive because they are close to the fast-growing Asian markets. But investing in Russia is a high-stakes crapshoot--in the case of Exxon Mobil, to the tune of some $4 billion. 

The U.S. oil giant signed its first deal in Russia in 1995 and pumped up its operations after the election of President Vladimir Putin in 2000 appeared to stabilize the country's chaotic economic policy. The focus of the oil company's activities is Sakhalin Island, a former penal colony off the east coast of Russia and north of Japan, which disputes Russia's sovereignty over it. Sakhalin has oil reserves of 14 billion barrels and the largest natural-gas deposits in Russia. Exxon Mobil formed a consortium with Japanese, Indian, and Russian companies to extract the fuel, retaining a 30% interest for itself. After negotiations with the Russian government that generated 41,000 pieces of paper, development began in 2001. 

The project, one of the largest foreign investments in Russia, has also turned out to be one of the most complex in Exxon Mobil's history. The consortium committed $4.5 billion before pumping the first barrel last year and figures a total capital cost of $12 billion--plus. Exxon Mobil expects the venture to produce 250,000 barrels a day, which would equal about 10% of the company's global production. If Sakhalin goes wrong, the oil giant's replacement strategy would take a crippling hit. 

The sheer scale of the bet is noteworthy; that it is happening in one of the world's most hostile climates makes it compelling. Conditions on the edge of Siberia are a huge challenge, with frigid, unpredictable weather and poor infrastructure and support services. There are some man-made hazards too. During the Soviet era, Sakhalin was a closed military zone, and the island is still studded with unexploded shells. 

To get at the oil, Exxon Mobil has deployed the largest and most powerful onshore drilling rig in the world, an enclosed structure 23 stories tall. This is paired with an offshore platform, which has been used in Alaska and is specifically designed for use in arctic climates. Combined, the two facilities will be able to drill up to 36 wells, some of which will extend horizontally more than six miles under the seabed--among the longest such wells in the world. Getting the oil to refineries required additional layers of infrastructure and investment, including the construction of an onshore processing facility. A half-mile-long bridge connects the platform to the shore; then the crude goes into a 135-mile pipeline on the Tatar Strait, where specially designed combination tanker-icebreakers bring the goods to market. 

Russian politics have blocked further efforts by Exxon Mobil to expand--and in fact are making business increasingly uncertain. The company signed a production-sharing agreement for Sakhalin-3 in 1996, but a government commission annulled the deal eight years later. Exxon Mobil was also on the verge of buying a $25 billion stake in Yukos when that company ran into political headwinds and was dismembered. Exxon Mobil plans no new investments in Russia. Even for a company that can lay down a multibillion-dollar stake in Siberia without blinking, the odds right now are just too long. 

Brainpower 

Except for a supersized Adirondack-style chalet that's used as a guesthouse, General Electric's Global Research Center looks like the campus of a large but undistinguished 1950s trade school. Belying its retro architectural feel, the Global Research Center, which overlooks the Mohawk River near Schenectady, N.Y., is the cutting edge of GE's effort to stay on the front lines of technological and financial excellence--and to speed up the journey of ideas from lab to market. "Create or die" is not only a cliche in the tech world; it is a natural law. (In the past couple of years, GE has also set up satellite research offices in Munich, Bangalore, and Shanghai.) 

The center is growing as fast as everything else at GE these days. This year GE will spend $458 million on research into products that don't yet exist, about one-sixth of its total $3.1 billion R&D budget. A little less than half of that money is allocated by the company to long-term, big-think projects like organic light- emitting diodes (OLEDs), GE's latest attempt to reinvent the light bulb. The effort seems particularly appropriate since one of GE's founders was Thomas Edison. The Wizard of Menlo Park might be pleased that his design is still the basic template, but GE is looking for a better way. It is working on simple electrical circuits that it can stamp out on a piece of plastic. These OLEDs, GE thinks, could eventually be a more efficient alternative to fluorescent bulbs. The research to transform OLEDs from a bright idea into a flick of the switch is expected to take five to seven years--about average for the advanced technology projects at GE. The rest of the money goes to projects with quick turnaround times. For example, researchers are trying to shorten the time required to produce a high-resolution magnetic-resonance image of a patient to five seconds from 45. Another group is working on high-strength composites that can replace components in aircraft engines. 

Projects range in length from a couple of months to 20 years. The trick is to keep everybody focused on goals and deadlines. Scott Donnelly, 43, the research head, who is a computer and electrical engineer by training, puts it this way: "We don't do stuff where we can't be sure where we are going. Our guys aren't confused." Among the bets that GE is pursuing, three could bring exceptional payoffs: 

? Nanotechnology: Looking into the different properties that materials exhibit at tiny scales--1/80,000 the width of a human hair- -has become so sexy that six of GE's 11 businesses want a stake in the outcome. Manipulating materials at nano scales can, say, improve the durability of a tennis ball by making its cover less permeable. GE doesn't make tennis balls, so it's looking into more cosmic applications. It has put 50 scientists to work learning how to develop supermaterials, like ceramics that have greater damage tolerance, and to manipulate materials in solar cells to make them more efficient at producing electricity. 

? Biotechnology: The diseases of aging baby-boomers-- Alzheimer's, cardiovascular disease, cancer--present a huge opportunity. GE is trying to figure out a way in which doctors can use molecular imaging to detect diseased cells long before there are any physical signs like tumors or growths. GE has built new lab space as part of a $100 million renovation at the center and plans to add another 30 to 40 researchers to the 50 it already has working. 

? Sustainable energy: Sanjay Correa, GE's global technology leader for energy, calls the hunt for clean, sustainable energy "the biggest question for mankind in this century." GE has 300 researchers investigating a gaggle of technologies, from hydrogen and photovoltaics to clean coal and wind. One-sixth of that scientific army is focused exclusively on hydrogen: how to make it, store it, and transfer it so that it can be converted into electricity. "We know things will change," Correa says. "The future is happening faster than anyone thought." 

And GE intends to grab a big chunk of it. 

FEEDBACK ataylor@fortunemail.com 

REPORTER ASSOCIATES Dana Castillo, Jia Lynn Yang 

Gambling on Hydrogen 

General Motors 

?GM blew it on electrics and missed the bus on hybrids. Now it's pinning its hopes on hydrogen. 

?The hydrogen-fueled Sequel (above) gets 300 miles between fill- ups--and revs from zero to 60 mph in less than ten seconds. 

?By 2010, GM will have spent $2 billion on fuel cell vehicles. 

Diamonds in the Rough 

De Beers 

?De Beers has been exploring for diamonds in Canada since the early 1960s. The country now accounts for more than 40% of its global exploration budget. 

?The kimberlites in Saskatchewan are buried under almost 300 feet of glacial till. 

? De Beers will not decide for years whether to drill. The cost of a new mine: $1 billion. 

A Fighter for the Future 

Lockheed Martin 

?The F-35 (see inset for model) could keep Lockheed aloft for a generation. 

?The wing and mid-section are assembled in a factory so big that workers use bicycles to get around. 

? Possible total export market for the F-35: 3,000 planes and up. 

Extreme Oil 

Exxon Mobil 

? Oil is always a risky business; drilling for oil in Russia these days takes nerves of steel. 

?Cold comfort: The 230-foot-high oil rig (center) is insulated against Siberia's frigid temperatures. 

? How much for this city on the steppe? $12 billion. 

Steppe by Steppe: How Oil Travels 

1 The world's tallest oil rig. 

2 Building the 135-mile pipeline and the foundation for the oil terminal. 

3 Snow and fir trees are a constant feature of the landscape. 

4 Built in a South Korean shipyard, the $80 million tanker Okha also doubles as an offshore oil-storage facility. These ships are the final link in the chain of investment that brings Siberian oil to the neighborhood pump. 

Genius Division 

General Electric 

? Once GE bet on computers, nukes, and jet engines. Now it's nanotech, renewable energy, and biotech. 

? GE spends almost half-a-billion dollars a year on products that don't exist--a figure that is growing fast. 

? The scribbles on the whiteboard behind this researcher have been declassified for this picture. 

See also introduction on page 55 of same issue. 

COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM LAMSON UNDER OBSERVATION GM is developing fuel-cell-powered engines at this lab in upstate New York. COLOR PHOTO: CHAGO AKII-BUA & BRIAN JONES SLEEK DREAMS GM's Sequel is a fuel cell pioneer. TWO COLOR PHOTOS: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC PIASECKI IN THE SKY WITH DIAMONDS Nighttime drilling at the mining site (left) in Saskatchewan. A geologist (right) studies core samples. COLOR PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC PIASECKI HIDDEN ICE Kimberlite, a volcanic rock, may harbor gems. TWO COLOR PHOTOS: PHOTOGRAPHS BY MISHA GRAVENOR MODEL PLANES A mockup (below) provides inspiration on the factory floor. COLOR PHOTO OIL CITY Exxon Mobil scratches a town out of the frozen tundra. COLOR PHOTO: EXXON MOBIL TWO COLOR PHOTOS: PETER BLAKELY--REDUX (2) COLOR PHOTO: PYOTR TSYRENDORZHIYEV--ITAR-TASS/NEWSCOM COLOR ILLUSTRATION: EXXON MOBIL Approximately 5 miles Extended-reach wells, which are more efficient and less environmentally intrusive, reach down and then extend out into the oil reservoir a total of six miles. THREE COLOR PHOTOS: PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW MONTEITH RESEARCHERS study how to use lasers to precisely shape metal (top). GE is developing fuel cells for industrial purposes (bottom). Michael Graham is team leader of laser research (right). 


Document FORTU00020050615e16r0000b


More Like This

 Article 466 *******************    



Short Interest Highlights 

1,976 words 
27 June 2005
The Wall Street Journal
B8
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


                          LARGEST SHORT POSITIONS 
 
 RANK                           JUN 15          MAY 13         CHANGE 
 
 
  1  Nasdaq-100 Trust         192,183,852    190,620,039      1,563,813 
  2  Level 3 Communicat       103,085,103    104,147,335     -1,062,232 
  3  Sirius Satellite         101,596,887    109,545,232     -7,948,345 
  4  Charter Comm A           100,231,565     95,045,023      5,186,542 
  5  Microsoft Corp            87,995,938     62,543,984     25,451,954 
  6  Yahoo! Inc                76,903,469     78,710,903     -1,807,434 
  7  Intel Corp                71,574,617     60,881,130     10,693,487 
  8  JDS Uniphase              67,509,563     34,926,837     32,582,726 
  9  IAC/InterActiveCorp       58,787,544     66,541,583     -7,754,039 
 10  XM Satellite Radio        57,605,689     58,374,046       -768,357 
 11  Applied Materials         51,978,111     44,342,777      7,635,334 
 12  Cisco Systems             48,947,136     47,499,008      1,448,128 
 13  Symantec Corp             48,399,012     44,699,445      3,699,567 
 14  eBay Inc                  39,486,545     38,441,342      1,045,203 
 15  Comcast Corp A            38,125,459     35,718,353      2,407,106 
 16  Sun Microsystems          37,893,646     31,307,755      6,585,891 
 17  Amazon.com                36,947,268     40,596,136     -3,648,868 
 18  Oracle Corp               36,244,003     38,550,128     -2,306,125 
 19  Northwest Airlines        26,364,265     21,738,195      4,626,070 
 20  Red Hat Inc               24,787,941     26,509,889     -1,721,948 
 21  Nextel Comm               24,709,559     32,565,052     -7,855,493 
 22  Juniper Networks          24,211,733     23,383,731        828,002 
 23  Qualcomm Inc              24,082,353     24,774,620       -692,267 
 24  Novell Inc                23,973,801     23,510,312        463,489 
 25  Amgen Inc                 21,739,429     19,800,611      1,938,818 
 26  Adobe Systems             21,736,530     20,773,050        963,480 
 27  Hudson City Bncp          20,214,050     11,190,944      9,023,106 
 28  Millennium Pharma         19,235,697     18,575,504        660,193 
 29  Gentex Corp               18,671,688     20,615,176     -1,943,488 
 30  OmniVision Technol        18,320,422     18,749,471       -429,049 
 
                                LARGEST CHANGES 
 
 RANK                           JUN 15           MAY 13        CHANGE 
 
  INCREASES (in shares) 
 
  1  JDS Uniphase              67,509,563     34,926,837     32,582,726 
  2  Microsoft Corp            87,995,938     62,543,984     25,451,954 
  3  Intel Corp                71,574,617     60,881,130     10,693,487 
  4  Hudson City Bncp          20,214,050     11,190,944      9,023,106 
  5  Applied Materials         51,978,111     44,342,777      7,635,334 
  6  Sun Microsystems          37,893,646     31,307,755      6,585,891 
  7  La Jolla Pharma            6,914,813        332,071      6,582,742 
  8  Sanmina-SCI Corp          15,163,477      9,959,346      5,204,131 
  9  Charter Comm A           100,231,565     95,045,023      5,186,542 
 10  Northwest Airlines        26,364,265     21,738,195      4,626,070 
 11  Symantec Corp             48,399,012     44,699,445      3,699,567 
 12  Nvidia Corp                8,884,117      5,413,472      3,470,645 
 13  Atmel Corp                 8,271,104      4,916,756      3,354,348 
 14  Emmis Comm A               7,043,952      3,775,715      3,268,237 
 15  Earthlink Inc              8,837,094      5,769,760      3,067,334 
 16  Mercury Interactiv         9,602,867      6,896,606      2,706,261 
 17  Hunt (JB) Transprt         8,915,289      6,384,176      2,531,113 
 18  Comcast Corp A            38,125,459     35,718,353      2,407,106 
 19  Celgene Corp              14,125,564     11,732,326      2,393,238 
 20  ATI Technologies           9,056,304      6,729,491      2,326,813 
 
  DECREASES (in shares) 
 
  1  WebMD Corp                 6,045,268     15,229,350     -9,184,082 
  2  Sirius Satellite         101,596,887    109,545,232     -7,948,345 
  3  Nextel Comm               24,709,559     32,565,052     -7,855,493 
  4  IAC/InterActiveCorp       58,787,544     66,541,583     -7,754,039 
  5  Ericsson (LM) ADS         12,159,514     16,127,406     -3,967,892 
  6  Amazon.com                36,947,268     40,596,136     -3,648,868 
  7  BEA Systems                9,692,934     12,421,635     -2,728,701 
  8  Amer Cap Strateg           7,881,019     10,353,827     -2,472,808 
  9  Veritas Software           8,483,565     10,865,225     -2,381,660 
 10  Oracle Corp               36,244,003     38,550,128     -2,306,125 
 11  Ciena Corp                 9,895,456     12,131,308     -2,235,852 
 12  JetBlue Airways           15,977,290     18,176,274     -2,198,984 
 13  Comcast Corp A Spl        14,722,911     16,897,678     -2,174,767 
 14  Yellow Roadway Corp        7,320,855      9,361,049     -2,040,194 
 15  Gentex Corp               18,671,688     20,615,176     -1,943,488 
 16  Napster Inc                3,831,844      5,757,744     -1,925,900 
 17  Viisage Technology         3,745,118      5,652,578     -1,907,460 
 18  Liberty Global A           4,106,096      5,914,903     -1,808,807 
 19  Yahoo! Inc                76,903,469     78,710,903     -1,807,434 
 20  VeriSign Inc              12,140,749     13,865,005     -1,724,256 
 21  Red Hat Inc               24,787,941     26,509,889     -1,721,948 
 22  Marvell Technology         9,567,951     11,288,439     -1,720,488 
 23  EchoStar Comm              6,479,041      8,126,861     -1,647,820 
 24  RealNetworks Inc           6,060,910      7,707,467     -1,646,557 
 25  Corinthian College         7,458,884      9,096,945     -1,638,061 
 
                      LARGEST SHORT INTEREST RATIOS 
 
  The short interest ratio is the number of days it would take to cover the 
short interest if trading continued at the average daily volume for the 
month. 
 
                                 JUN 15          AVG DLY         DAYS TO 
 RANK                           SHORT INT         VOL-a           COVER 
 
  1  Havas Advtsng ADS          1,397,061          4,784            292 
  2  Integrated Alarm           5,486,569         35,575            154 
  3  SCO Group Inc              4,077,789         34,155            119 
  4  Foster Wheeler wtB         4,629,269         55,162             84 
  5  Atlas America Inc          1,440,504         21,209             68 
  6  Biolase Technology         6,539,014        102,262             64 
  7  Global Crossing Ltd        8,757,981        151,672             58 
  8  Quaker Fabric              1,255,371         23,009             55 
  9  Bank of the Ozarks         2,002,318         46,100             43 
 10  1-800 Contacts             1,232,443         29,298             42 
 11  PrivateBancorp             2,571,151         64,766             40 
 12  FPIC Insurance Grp         1,779,266         45,071             39 
 13  Gander Mountain Co         2,320,943         58,947             39 
 14  Zix Corp                   6,310,257        164,763             38 
 15  Mair Holdings Inc          1,345,167         35,544             38 
 16  Planar Systems             3,071,036         82,944             37 
 17  KVH Industries             2,874,643         77,691             37 
 18  Pain Therapeutics          2,989,017         86,683             34 
 19  Introgen Therapeut         5,341,175        157,881             34 
 20  Navigant Int'l             1,552,002         46,173             34 
 
  Issues that split in the latest month are excluded. The largest percentage 
increase and decrease sections are limited to issues with previously 
established short positions in both months. 
 
                             LARGEST % INCREASES 
 
 RANK                            JUN 15          MAY 13             % 
 
  1  La Jolla Pharma            6,914,813        332,071        1,982.3 
  2  Internet InitiativeADS     1,769,292        111,568        1,485.8 
  3  GeoResources Inc             470,765         73,752          538.3 
  4  Petroquest Energy            864,593        203,054          325.8 
  5  Velocity Express             564,352        139,541          304.4 
  6  Innovo Group               2,058,744        577,451          256.5 
  7  Chartered Semi ADS           479,964        161,073          198.0 
  8  Dreyer's Grand Ice         1,026,926        349,591          193.8 
  9  Source Interlink           1,660,432        771,096          115.3 
 10  Jamdat Mobile Inc          3,920,048      1,847,281          112.2 
 11  Symmetricom Inc            3,594,633      1,766,607          103.5 
 12  ZipRealty Inc              1,272,019        639,117           99.0 
 13  Vasco Data Secur           2,299,510      1,155,857           98.9 
 14  Lawson Software            3,666,200      1,849,111           98.3 
 15  Macromedia Inc             2,174,133      1,098,634           97.9 
 16  IntraLase Corp             1,015,914        525,144           93.5 
 17  JDS Uniphase              67,509,563     34,926,837           93.3 
 18  Idenix Pharmas               907,947        478,992           89.6 
 19  DryShips Inc               1,053,690        559,010           88.5 
 20  Emmis Comm A               7,043,952      3,775,715           86.6 
 21  Enterra Energy             1,293,922        706,532           83.1 
 22  Hudson City Bncp          20,214,050     11,190,944           80.6 
 23  ARM Hldgs PLC ADS          1,595,160        890,262           79.2 
 24  Applied Micro Circ         2,681,552      1,520,901           76.3 
 25  ADC Telecommun             3,238,851      1,849,118           75.2 
 26  Altair Nanotech            4,380,206      2,528,212           73.3 
 27  Atmel Corp                 8,271,104      4,916,756           68.2 
 28  Nvidia Corp                8,884,117      5,413,472           64.1 
 29  IDX Systems Corp           1,605,624        984,399           63.1 
 30  Cognos Inc                 2,212,351      1,365,470           62.0 
 31  Saflink Corp               1,883,860      1,199,762           57.0   


 32  School Specialty           2,111,351      1,369,735           54.1 
 33  CompuCredit Corp           3,059,699      1,991,066           53.7 
 34  Insmed Inc                 2,131,919      1,388,825           53.5 
 35  Earthlink Inc              8,837,094      5,769,760           53.2 
 
                                LARGEST % DECREASES 
 
 RANK                               JUN 15       MAY 13             % 
 
  1  Makita Corp ADS               62,238        429,418          -85.5 
  2  Medallion Fin'l               90,037        501,441          -82.0 
  3  Forbes Medi-Tech             200,187        737,482          -72.9 
  4  Shopping.com Ltd             378,282      1,385,598          -72.7 
  5  Aphton Corp                  331,737      1,186,793          -72.0 
  6  Indus Int'l Inc              446,518      1,411,230          -68.4 
  7  Nutrition 21 Inc             284,738        828,765          -65.6 
  8  WebMD Corp                 6,045,268     15,229,350          -60.3 
  9  Viewpoint Corp               225,936        551,224          -59.0 
 10  iPayment Inc                 320,250        718,975          -55.5 
 11  Stellent Inc                 611,257      1,298,815          -52.9 
 12  KongZhong Corp ADS           596,352      1,214,570          -50.9 
 13  Matria Healthcare          1,108,039      2,250,309          -50.8 
 14  United Fire&Cas              324,823        655,938          -50.5 
 15  Video Display                321,060        647,745          -50.4 
 16  Cuno Inc                     849,748      1,541,137          -44.9 
 17  Silver Standard Rescs      1,087,028      1,958,104          -44.5 
 18  SeaChange Int'l            1,747,193      3,023,243          -42.2 
 19  OpenTV Corp A                620,983      1,032,543          -39.9 
 20  Rural Cellular A             482,238        792,925          -39.2 
 21  TLC Vision Corp            1,707,182      2,776,078          -38.5 
 22  TTM Technologies           1,980,554      3,177,854          -37.7 
 23  Gen-Probe Inc              1,349,462      2,135,217          -36.8 
 24  Tarragon Corp              1,237,326      1,946,749          -36.4 
 25  Magma Design Auto          2,418,622      3,753,221          -35.6 
 26  Viisage Technology         3,745,118      5,652,578          -33.7 
 27  Napster Inc                3,831,844      5,757,744          -33.4 
 28  Endo Pharma                1,939,941      2,855,991          -32.1 
 29  Black Box Corp             1,022,178      1,502,805          -32.0 
 30  Qiagen N.V.                2,034,657      2,987,798          -31.9 
 31  ThermoGenesis Cp           1,433,570      2,104,108          -31.9 
 32  Merit Medical Sys          1,125,706      1,639,475          -31.3 
 33  Liberty Global A           4,106,096      5,914,903          -30.6 
 34  Boston Communicat          2,667,145      3,826,010          -30.3 
 35  Metals USA Inc             1,888,943      2,707,463          -30.2 
   

Document J000000020050627e16r0000f


More Like This

 Article 467 *******************    



Investment Guide: Stocks: Nanotech

Beaming In On Nano Gold; There's plenty of hype in nanotech, but cautious prospecting can pay off. 

By Adam Aston 
827 words 
27 June 2005
BusinessWeek
122
Volume 3940
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Devotees call it the biggest thing since the Industrial Revolution. Nanotech, they say, promises to reengineer the man-made world, molecule by molecule, sparking a wave of innovation in everything from machines to medicine. Over the past three years, venture capitalists have poured some $900 million into the field -- few call it an industry yet -- while governments have invested many billions more in research & development over the past decade. ``After biotech and the Internet, nanotech is the next place for growth,'' says John M.A. Roy, an analyst at WR Hambrecht + Co. 

Yet for investors, buying nanotech stocks is more black magic than science. There are only about 30 companies focused on nanotech listed on NASDAQ, and profits are scarce, making financial analysis more like guesswork. What's more, adds Roy, many of the players engage in research so complex and with such uncertain timelines that even other scientists have trouble valuing their innovations, let alone their business models. ``On the science side, nanotech's for real: It will dominate the world for the next 50 years,'' says Darrell Brookstein, managing director of Nanotech Co., a San Diego consultancy and author of Nanotech Fortunes: Make Yours in the Boom, published this year. ``But on the investment side, be careful.'' 

So investors might keep in mind the old adage: In a gold rush, only the sellers of picks and axes are sure to profit. In the nano-rush, that would be the makers of microscopes and design software. Both FEI Co., in Hillsboro, Ore., and Veeco Instruments Inc., in Woodbury, N.Y., which make the powerful microscopes and energy-beam devices used to probe ultratiny structures, figure to grow with the industry. Plus, they already run sound businesses selling science lab instruments and chip-inspection devices. In San Diego, Accelrys Inc. is a leading maker of the software tools that help scientists visualize how molecules interact. 

To profit from actual nanotech products, the best bets may be companies with a diverse catalog of projects. Arrowhead Research Corp.'s strategy is to fund university R&D -- now mostly at Stanford University and the California Institute of Technology -- in return for the rights to any inventions. The Pasadena (Calif.) company's projects include finding ways to use very tiny molecules to cut drug toxicity and developing new methods to make computer chips. 

Countless more nano-products are brewing inside an estimated 1,300 or so startups. One way to invest in them is through Harris & Harris Group Inc., a NASDAQ-listed venture-capital firm that holds stakes in several market leaders. These include Nanosys Inc., which canceled a much-anticipated initial public offering last summer as the market fell; computer-memory developer Nantero Inc.; and Nanomix Inc., which is pursuing ultrasensitive sensors for industrial and medical markets. 

The least risky route is to invest in the old-line technology giants that have big presences in nanotech. BASF, Dow Chemical, DuPont, General Electric, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and NEC hold most of the basic nanotech patents. Established companies spent an estimated $3.8 billion on nanotech last year, making them the largest private funders of nanotech R&D, says Peter Hebert, CEO of Lux Research Inc., a New York market consultancy. Given their experience in bringing new technologies to market, corporate labs may dominate this sector, he adds. For investors, the downside is that any gains in nanotech will initially account for just a sliver of the blue chips' earnings and have a limited impact on their shares. 

Any new nanotech IPOs are sure to unleash a fresh wave of hype, pulling up existing stocks. At the same time, the field remains so immature that sell-offs are sure to follow, as investors sort out incremental advances from market-changing innovations. Indeed, the few nano-enhancements already for sale, such as stainproof fabrics, highly durable paints, and lighter sports rackets, are just evolutionary, says Nanotech Co.'s Brookstein. ``The revolutionary -- new types of materials, cancer treatments, and flat panel displays -- won't begin for another four to 10 years,'' he says. Till then, this very small technology will continue to inspire very big dreams. 


Some Little Things To Think About
 STOCK/SYMBOL               PRICE P-E RATIO

 Arrowhead Research ARWR    $2.40 N/A
 Hopes to profit from spin-outs and licensing of its
 nanotech patent portfolio

 FEI                        FEIC  23.25 42
 Builds the ultrapowerful microscopes and atomic probes
 used in nanotechnology

 Harris & Harris Group TINY 12.22 N/A
 Venture-capital outfit specializes in funding nanotech
 startups

 Veeco Instruments VECO     15.51 258
Vendor of advanced processing gear used to make and
          check nano-materials
          
          * June 10
          ** Based on forecasted earnings for fiscal 2005
          Data: BusinessWeek, Bloomberg Financial Markets
  

photograph | Photograph: NANO MOLECULE Gear makers look promising PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS EWELS 


Document BW00000020050623e16r00008


More Like This

 Article 468 *******************    



Voices of Innovation

Vint Cerf: Next Stop, Mars; The Internet pioneer is working on interplanetary communication 

By Catherine Yang 
627 words 
4 July 2005
BusinessWeek
18
Volume 3941
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Thirty-two years ago, computer scientists Vinton G. Cerf and Robert E. Kahn sat together at a hotel in Palo Alto, Calif., and scribbled out on a yellow legal pad the software code that gave rise to the Internet. Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) gave computers standard addresses by which they can exchange packets of data -- putting the ``e'' into email, ebiz, and everything that followed. Since then the two of them, often called the Fathers of the Internet, have been showered with accolades. Most recently, on June 8, they won the A.M. Turing Award, the closest thing to a Nobel Prize in computer science. 

Cerf, a dapper 62-year-old, is senior vice-president for technology strategy at MCI Inc., and he is still striving to open new frontiers on the Net. Among his latest projects is expanding the world's stock of Web addresses to accommodate the proliferation of connected devices. Today that means TiVos, cell phones, iPods, and games, but Cerf says the list of connectibles will someday include nano devices such as tiny microprocessors assembled from individual molecules. ``We want to make it seem like everyone who's on the network is on one big computer,'' he says. 

And it's not just about earthlings. Over the past seven years, working with engineers at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Cerf has been preparing something called InterPlaNet protocol, which may first be used on a Mars orbiter in 2009. Today, NASA spacecraft carry their own telecom equipment to communicate with earth. But the devices on each new mission can't interact with those on other spacecraft. Just as the Internet laces terrestrial computers into one big network, InterPlaNet would provide a common language to link all communications among space probes and planetary stations. 

Chatting across the empty reaches of space presents some challenges. An electronic signal making a round-trip to the moon, about 240,000 miles away, takes 2.5 seconds. A round-trip to Mars takes as much as 40 minutes, depending on how far apart the two planets are -- and that's not factoring in severe storms on the Red Planet. ``It would be very hard to have an interactive conversation,'' says Cerf. There's no way to eliminate delays, but the smart system Cerf and JPL are devising should be able to assure delivery of signals despite transmission delays and interruptions. 

Back on earth, Cerf devotes himself to solving the ongoing real estate crunch in cyberspace. The world is quickly tearing through the 4.3 billion possible Internet addresses that the current version of Internet Protocol provides for. The solution is called IP version 6, which makes room for 380 trillion trillion trillion unique Net addresses. The trick is upgrading the global infrastructure to fit this new protocol. 

Trillions upon trillions of addresses may sound out of this world. But consider that electronic devices may shrink down to the dimensions of biological cells, which humans and other creatures manufacture in the trillions. Whether cell-sized contraptions with nanoscale parts are eventually crafted from silicon, carbon, or some other material, they're bound to require Net connectivity, just as the neurons of the brain depend upon the synapses that connect them. ``Though we haven't gotten to a point where we understand how to make it happen artificially, the idea of using something as small as a molecule to store memory is not crazy at all,'' he says. 

Whether molecular computing is crazy or not, Cerf remains a proud father of the world's greatest artificial network. And he isn't finished egging his offspring on to a bigger future. 

Document BW00000020050630e17400019


More Like This

 Article 469 *******************    



Technology

Chip Giants, New York Team Up For Lithography Research Effort 

By Don Clark 
617 words 
19 July 2005
The Wall Street Journal
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

New York state officials and four big chip makers today plan to announce a $580 million research partnership in lithography, a crucial semiconductor manufacturing technology that is facing big changes. 

The companies -- International Business Machines Corp., Advanced Micro Devices Inc., Infineon Technologies AG and Micron Technology Inc. -- are expected to each commit $50 million in cash and other contributions over five years to the venture. Besides that $200 million, about $180 million is expected from the New York State Assembly and $200 million from suppliers of lithography tools and materials. 

Dubbed Invent, for the International Venture for Nanolithography, the effort will be based at Albany NanoTech, a research and development center affiliated with the State University of New York at Albany. It is designed to give chip makers early access to coming lithography tools to help the companies learn how to use them, participants in the venture said. 

New York's Hudson Valley, home to IBM, has been courting high-tech companies to bring technology expertise and create jobs. Albany has attracted research centers associated with Sematech, the chip-industry consortium based in Austin, Texas, and a $400 million joint venture of IBM and ASML Holding NV, a big lithography toolmaker. "Invent is the last piece in that mall," said Alain Kaloyeros, president of Albany NanoTech. 

Lithography, a photographic process that evolved from the printing industry, uses light to trace patterns of circuitry as chips are created on silicon wafers. Other processes add and remove materials to create transistors and wire them together. 

Advances in lithography tools, which cost as much as $25 million each, are crucial for chip makers to continue shrinking the size of transistors, which allow each chip to provide more calculating power and store more data. If a chip factory were an opera, "the diva is lithography," said Ken Schroeder, chief executive of KLA-Tencor Corp., a maker of chip-inspection tools based in San Jose, Calif. 

The most advanced chips in production have features with widths of 90 nanometers, or billionths of a meter, and companies expect to begin introducing 65-nanometer chips in 2006 or 2007. To reach 45 nanometers, however, chip makers are contemplating a new technology called immersion, which injects a film of water between a projection lens and the silicon wafer to focus light beams more precisely. 

ASML, which expects to begin selling immersion tools next year, has sent an initial test machine to Albany. 

Getting to about 22 nanometers, semiconductor companies are expected to take an even more radical step, called extreme ultraviolet lithography, or EUV. At such tiny dimensions, lenses no longer can be used; light beams must be focused using a collection of mirrors. ASML, which makes EUV tools, said it doesn't expect that technology to arrive in chip factories until at least 2010. 

In Belgium, the Interuniversity MicroElectronics Center, known as IMEC, also has received early lithography tools and has participants that include chip giant Intel Corp. 

Mr. Kaloyeros acknowledged that his organization mainly has attracted companies that are loosely allied with IBM, but said that Intel will be "under increased pressure" to join the Albany effort. An Intel spokesman declined to comment. 

--- 


                        Shrinking Semiconductors 
 
  Widths of chip circuitry compared to other object sizes, in nanometers (nm) 
 
Head of pin (actual size): 1 millimeter = 1,000,000 nanometers 
Human hair: 80,000 nm 
Semiconductors (In 2004): 90 nm 
DNA: 0.5 nm-2 nm 
 
  The shrinking width of memory chip circuits (not actual sizes): 
 
2001  130 nm 
2004  90 nm 
2007*  65 nm 
2010*  45 nm 
2013*  32 nm 
2016*  22 nm 
 
  * Projected 
 
  Source: International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors 
    

Document J000000020050719e17j0002z


More Like This

 Article 470 *******************    



Southeastern U.S. Aims to Lure More Venture-Capital Investing 

By Donna Fuscaldo Dow Jones Newswires 
826 words 
20 July 2005
The Wall Street Journal
B4A
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

The Southeastern U.S. may boast a booming population and a growing entrepreneurial base, but that hasn't translated into a surge in venture-capital investing. 

While the Southeast accounts for about 20% of the nation's economic activity, officials in the region say it garners only 9% of nationwide venture-capital dollars. "The Southeast is one of the most undercapitalized regions in the country," says John Glushik, a partner at Intersouth Partners, an early-stage venture firm based in Durham, N.C. 

In an effort to combat that deficit, 12 Southern states and Puerto Rico have joined forces to lure more venture funding to the region. Named VentureSouth, the group's goal is to roughly double the South's share of national venture-capital funding to 20%. Member states are Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Florida, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. The group is headed by Virginia Gov. Mark Warner, a longtime venture capitalist turned politician. 

The initiative will last for two years and brings together 100 venture-capital firms, government officials and economic-development organizations across the South. VentureSouth is in the early stages, with members planning to meet for the first time in October to plan ways to boost venture funding. Backers say increasing venture investment in the South is critical to the future of the region's economy. 

"The South needs new capital so that we can start to address the declines in some major industries like textiles, furniture and apparel, and take advantage of new industries," says Scott Doron, director of the Southern Technology Council, an advisory group that guides research on science and technology for the Southern Growth Policies Board. "There are a lot of start-up companies but not the numbers that we need. VC dollars spur more start-ups." 

Parts of the Southeast indeed have been struggling as companies have shut down manufacturing plants in traditional regional industries such as textiles and furniture, and sent the work overseas where cheap labor is plentiful. States like North Carolina and Georgia have been particularly hard hit. 

At the same time, start-ups have arisen in fields such as wireless technology, nanotechnology and biotechnology, and are in search of funding. 

The reasons for the low level of Southern venture investments vary, but most agree it has more to do with image than a dearth of start-up companies. "We're not as marquee as Silicon Valley, or Boston or New England," Mr. Doron says. What is more, venture capitalists say much of the money that does come into Southern start-ups comes from outside the region, which damps the economic benefit from the investment. 

"There's a whole ripple effect if the money is not being resident here. It's not just Georgia; it's around the Southeast," says John Huntz, managing director at Fuqua Ventures, an Atlanta-based venture-capital firm. 

According to Mr. Huntz, Georgia -- home to Georgia Institute of Technology and one of the South's largest cities, Atlanta -- saw the majority of the VC dollars raised in the fourth quarter of 2004 come from outside the state. Often, after the investment is made, he says, the start-up moves out of the South, thus reducing the ancillary benefits of the investment. 

To reverse that trend, the founders of VentureSouth have decided to allow only venture-capital firms with offices in the South to participate in the initiative. The hope is to create a venture network across the Southeast where venture capitalists and start-ups can communicate with each other to foster increased investment in Southern companies. 

Silicon Valley is known for its plethora of high-tech start-ups, and New England is big in the biotechnology and medical arenas. But venture capitalists say the South, with its Research Triangle in North Carolina and Virginia's footprint in the wireless market, is a breeding ground for those looking to invest in technology, biotech and nanotechnology start-ups. 

"The Southeast is an emerging entrepreneurial area where there's significant technology and a great group of managers and executives to run those companies," says Mr. Glushik of Intersouth. 

For Mr. Glushik, a venture capitalist who invests primarily in the South, luring more venture-capital firms to the region is a win-win proposition, despite the potential for increased competition. Not to mention that if Intersouth passes on an early-stage investment, it won't mean that a start-up company doesn't get funded. The more early-stage enterprises that get started in the Southeast, the more growth for the region, Mr. Glushik says. 

This isn't the first time Southern states have tried to increase investment in the region, but those involved say this is the most concerted effort to date. Having government officials involved will ensure that the needs of the venture-capital community are met, they note. 

Document J000000020050720e17k0000f


More Like This

 Article 471 *******************    



America Gasps For Breath in the R&D Marathon 

By Vinton Cerf and Harris N. Miller 
1,077 words 
27 July 2005
The Wall Street Journal
A12
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

America will soon find its grip on the levers of international commerce slipping as we turn our backs on a proud tradition of technology innovation. The stewards of our national destiny are busily tightening the tap on the federal R&D budget, the most important source of funding for programs that seek to answer fundamental questions of science and technology. 

In real terms, the total federal R&D portfolio could decline for the first time since 1996 if the recommendations in the president's FY 2006 budget proposal survive budget season in Washington. Even some federal agencies nominated for real increases in funding are shifting their priorities. Perhaps the most troubling example lies in the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), which over the decades has supported research leading to some of the most valuable technological developments of the past 50 years. 

In the 1960s and '70s, a collection of academics and private-sector technologists, including a co-author of this piece, used findings funded by the Pentagon's Advanced Research Projects Agency (now DARPA), to participate in implementation of the first wide-area packet switched network (the ARPANET) and the subsequent integrated collection of packet-switched networks (the Internet). 

Now DARPA officials have revealed a shift in focus away from its history of open-ended long-range research, which typically has been performed in universities and nonprofit institutions. According to recent news reports, DARPA funding for university researchers in computer science has fallen from $214 million to $123 million from 2001 to 2004. Moreover, the focus of DARPA R&D is more near-term and more immediately defense-oriented than before. While this is defensible in some ways, the largest impacts of long-term research funded in the past by DARPA have been in areas that have wider or dual application to defense and the civilian sector. 

The U.S. is already lagging behind in R&D funding. Our total national spending on R&D is 2.7% of our GDP, and now ranks sixth in the world, in relative terms, behind Israel (4.4%), Sweden (3.8%), Finland (3.4%), Japan (3.0%) and Iceland (2.9%). The federal government's share of total national R&D spending has fallen from 66% in 1964 to 25%. 

Some of the outright cuts in the president's proposed R&D budget include the following: 

-- The Department of Energy's Office of Science would see its R&D funding fall 4.5% to $3.2 billion. 

-- The Department of Agriculture would see its R&D funding decline 14.6% to $2.1 billion. 

-- Funding for all three multi-agency R&D initiatives would decline in FY 2006, a category that includes programs such as the National Nanotechnology Initiative and the Networking and Information Technology R&D initiative. 

The proposed cuts come at a time when other nations have fixed their sights firmly on overtaking our technological lead, especially in information technology. For those of us in industry and academia, this shift in policy represents a major detour in the marathon race for global economic leadership. 

The list of entrants in that race is long and growing longer, now including the likes of China, Japan, India and the European Union. And they are not taking any wrong turns. These nations are graduating more science and technology specialists, spending more on Information and Communications Technology (ICT), filing for more U.S. patents for foreign inventions, and generally executing specific high-tech policy agendas aimed at unseating the U.S. Looking at the number of degrees awarded, for example, one finds that India graduates approximately 184,000 engineers per year, and China more than 200,000. The U.S. graduates no more than 60,000. 

Among the top 10 nations in ICT spending, China is projected to be the fastest growing, with a compound annual growth rate of 13.9% during the years 2003 through 2007. It will be sixth fastest among all nations, including many in the developing world that are starting from near zero. India, meanwhile, ranks 10th in growth overall at 13.44%. 

As for the implications of these cuts, we can only predict that the price will be dear. While the open-ended nature of basic research forces us to look to the past for specific examples, present indicators are clear. National Science Foundation data show that from 1989 to 2001, applications for U.S. Patents from China, India and Japan have grown from 5% of all applications to 19%. The number of U.S. scientific publications has remained essentially flat since 1992. 

A decline in the federal R&D funding makes a troubling situation worse still. Fewer articles mean fewer findings for industry to apply in new products. Fewer products mean fewer jobs, less capital for investments and, in general, less new wealth for the U.S. and its citizens. 

The facile solution is to turn to private industry and academia to make up the difference. But R&D funding from private industry is currently growing above inflation. It is susceptible to general economic cycles, and by its nature it is focused on the here and now. Meanwhile, many academic institutions are battling lagging enrollment and turning to unconventional fund-raising means merely to stay afloat. The difficulty in obtaining visas for foreign scientists has also restricted an important source of talent in the research community. 

In a very real sense, today's R&D agenda determines where America will find itself in the future. The benefits of vigorous, federally funded academic R&D programs reaped by American society at large have been enormous. Our domestic and global economies thrive on the results of such work. Private sector programs alone cannot produce comparable results, in part owing to an ethical obligation to deliver bottom-line business results for their stockholders. The U.S. government needs a long-term strategy for continued economic growth. A strong and thriving academic R&D program is critical to that strategy. To choose otherwise is a recipe leading to irrelevance and decline. 

--- 

Mr. Cerf, co-founder of the Internet, is chairman of the board for the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). Mr. Miller is president of the Information Technology Association of America (ITAA). 

Document J000000020050727e17r0001h


More Like This

 Article 472 *******************    



Long Live AI 

Ray Kurzweil 
709 words 
15 August 2005
Forbes
30
Volume 176 Issue 3
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

Reports of the death of artificial intelligence were greatly exaggerated. Get ready for nanobots in the body that root out disease and keep us young. 

A couple of decades before the boom-bust cycle in e-commerce and telecommunications there was a similar phenomenon in artificial intelligence. Many people think the so-called AI winter in the 1980s, when many AI companies folded, was the end of the story. But boom-bust cycles are sometimes harbingers of true revolutions (recall the railroad frenzy of the 19th century), and we see the same phenomenon in AI. 

Artificial intelligence permeates our economy. It's what I define as "narrow" AI: machine intelligence that equals or exceeds human intelligence for specific tasks. Every time you send an e-mail or make a cell phone call, intelligent algorithms route the information. AI programs diagnose heart disease, fly and land airplanes, guide autonomous weapons, make automated investment decisions for a trillion dollars' worth of funds and guide industrial processes. These were all research projects a couple of decades ago. If all the intelligent software in the world were to suddenly stop functioning, modern civilization would grind to a halt. 

So what are the prospects for "strong" AI, which I describe as machine intelligence with the full range of human intelligence? We can meet the hardware requirements. I figure we need about 10 quadrillion calculations a second to provide a functional equivalent to all the regions of the brain. IBM's Blue Gene/L computer is already at 100 trillion. If we plug in the semiconductor industry's projections, we can see that 10 quadrillion calculations a second will be available for $1,000 by around 2020. 

So now the controversy is focused on the algorithms. To understand the principles of human intelligence we need to reverse-engineer the human brain. Here progress is far greater than most people realize. The spatial and temporal resolution of brain scanning is progressing at an exponential rate, roughly doubling each year. Scanning tools can see individual interneuronal connections and watch them fire in real time. We already have mathematical models and simulations of a few dozen regions of the brain, including the cerebellum, which comprises more than half the neurons. It is reasonable to conclude that in two decades we will have effective models for most of the brain. 

Machines can now far exceed human capabilities at such tasks as logical analysis and searching through vast databases. A couple of minutes spent with Google demonstrates that superiority. The strength of human intelligence lies in our ability to recognize patterns. But machines are gradually gaining in this type of ability as well. 

Our technology is also shrinking at an exponential rate. By the 2020s nanotechnology will let us build vast numbers of tiny machines at the molecular level. The killer app of strong AI, combined with nanotechnology, will be blood-cell-size robots called nanobots. We'll have billions of them traveling in our bloodstream, communicating with one another on a wireless local area network and transmitting information and software to and from the Internet. They'll keep us healthy by destroying pathogens and cancer cells, removing debris, correcting DNA errors and otherwise reversing disease and aging processes. 

They'll also go inside our brain capillaries and interact with our biological neurons. By augmenting and/or replacing the signals from our real senses, they'll provide full-immersion virtual reality from within the nervous system. "Experience beamers" will send their entire flow of sensory and emotional experiences onto the Internet the way people now beam images from their Web cams. We'll be able to plug in and experience what it's like to be someone else. 

The result will be a profound transformation of business, commerce and society. We'll come up with solutions to improve our health, clean up the environment and provide for an expanding human population. Keep in mind that this is not an alien invasion of intelligent machines coming to compete with us. It is already in our pockets, will soon migrate into our clothing and will make its way into our bodies and brains. 

Ray Kurzweil, author of The Singularity Is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology (Viking, Forthcoming) 

Document FB00000020050729e18f00008


More Like This

 Article 473 *******************    



Technology

The Bunny Chip; The drug industry, with a microchip, could save money and spare millions of furry creatures. 

Amanda Schupak 
1,040 words 
15 August 2005
Forbes
53
Volume 176 Issue 3
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

The drug industry could slash its costs, and spare millions of furry creatures, with a chip that mimics a living organism. 

Drug researchers must hack their way through tens of thousands of chemical candidates to find one blockbuster drug. Every toxic or ineffective molecule they rule out brings them closer to their goal. But it takes, on average, $800 million and 14 years to develop a drug and win Food & Drug Administration approval. Regrettably, some 30 million rabbits, mice and other creatures are sacrificed each year for pharma's sake. 

"Drug development is a very inefficient process," says Gregory Baxter, a molecular biologist and cofounder of Hurel Corp. in Beverly Hills, Calif. 

Baxter thinks he can save drug companies tens of millions of dollars and six months or more of delay--not to mention spare them the ire of animal lovers--with his company's curious product, the Hurel. Part silicon, part animal, the Hurel is a microchiplike wafer with several chambers lined with live mammalian cells from the liver, heart, lungs or other organ systems (extracted either from animals or from lab-grown cell lines). An external pump moves a candidate drug molecule through the Hurel's compartments, which are connected by a network of channels as narrow as 20 micrometers. 

The Hurels mimic in vitro the complex physiology of mammals. Within hours of injecting a drug into a Hurel, a lab researcher can determine if a drug might be toxic or ineffective in the body of an animal--or a human--averting the costly leap from cellular screenings to lengthy animal trials. 

It's a leap drugmakers would desperately like to avoid: To get one drug approved by the FDA, a pharma company puts 250 candidates into animal testing, at a cost of $250 million. Baxter estimates that screening drug candidates with the Hurel chip before animal tests would help researchers identify 20% of those molecules typically doomed to fail and eliminate them early, saving $50 million. Cutting down a proportionate number of drugs that go into human trials would save another $88 million. Moreover, Hurels lined with human cells may someday be used in personalized medicine, allowing doctors to concoct effective and safe drug combinations for, say, a cancer patient, by using the patient's own cells and a biopsy of the tumor. 

In early 2004 Hurel Chief Executive Robert Freedman contacted 12 large drug companies to form a yearlong collaboration to refine and validate the Hurel technology. The first to sign up was Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development in June 2005. "This actually could replace early animal screening studies for pharmacokinetics," says Alfred Tonelli, a vice president of preclinical development at J&J PRD. The Hurel, he says, could be "a model that's better than animals, more human-relevant." 

Freedman and Baxter are also talking to consumer products companies looking to get out of animal testing. Happy news to Mary Beth Sweetland, research director at People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. "These technologies take us from cruel, crude animal tests into real science," she says. "Only these companies are going to get the numbers [of animals killed] down." 

The first Hurels are expected to hit the market in late 2006, designed to fit into the high-speed chemistry screening equipment used in most labs. Hurel says it can manufacture them for under $100 apiece by injection molding or embossing the intricate fluid channels out of plastic. Current prototypes are made from silicon etched under plasma gas. 

The Hurel originated at the nanofabrication facility at Cornell University as a collaboration between the 45-year-old Baxter and 58-year-old biomedical engineer Michael Shuler. Baxter arrived at Cornell in the spring of 1997 with a background in microfluidics; on his second day there he met Shuler, who was doing toxicology testing with a Rube Goldbergian system of beakers and tubes. Baxter suggested they try miniaturizing the beaker works. Within minutes the two were scribbling down ideas, and at the end of their second meeting they had a device in mind: an animal-on-a-chip. 

In 1999 they started testing a prototype, focusing on a common complication in pharmaceutical testing. "The chemical you start out with, or the drug, isn't the chemical that ends up interacting with the target," says Baxter. Body chemistry often gives drugs a new form, which can be toxic or even deadly. Simple test tube experiments often cannot predict these changes. Baxter and Shuler set out to show that their chip could. 

They took naphthalene, the smelly ingredient in mothballs, and ran it through a three-chambered chip containing a rat's lung and liver cells and an empty compartment representing the rest of the body. Naphthalene is harmless in its natural state, yet it is toxic to mammals once metabolized by the liver. The naphthalene-infused fluid was pumped first through the lung chamber, then split between the liver and cell-less "other" compartment. Then the divergent paths rejoined, and the fluid began its course again. After a few hours, analysis using fluorescent dyes showed high rates of cell death in the lung compartment: The chip had metabolized the naphthalene, which then poisoned the lung cells. (Control tests without liver cells showed no damage.) Baxter and Shuler demonstrated how a harmless compound could become harmful in the body--without using a body at all. Since then they have completed successful proofs of concept with 15 different compounds, including the muscle relaxant Dantrolene and the chemotherapy medication tegafur. 

Hurel Corp. got its start in 2002, when Robert Freedman, a venture capitalist in California, heard Baxter speak about the device and was instantly impressed: "Like they said in the movie: He had me at 'hello.'" Freedman's firm, Athena Capital, invested more than half a million dollars to license the technology from Cornell and file additional patents. (Shuler still sits on Hurel's scientific advisory board.) 

"It's an easily usable tool, it's widely applicable, and it's disposable," says Freedman. The Hurel is so simple, he says, "it's just like a Bic pen." 

Document FB00000020050729e18f0000k


More Like This

 Article 474 *******************    


Fortune Industrial Management & Technology/Bonus Feature

Learning at Mother Nature's Knee Designs fine-tuned by billions of years of evolution inspire 21st-century inventions through the science of biomimicry. 

JOHN GREENWALD 
2,922 words 
22 August 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
108B
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

NATURAL SELECTION HAS BEEN AT WORK FOR EONS, creating designs that outperform anything humans have yet devised: abalone shells tougher than the hardest ceramic, spider silk stronger than steel, a sea creature called a brittle star that can focus light ten times more sharply than the finest man-made lens. Today researchers are studying such forms in hopes of hatching new products and technologies. The work is advancing at companies as varied as Lucent Technologies and Nike, which this year retained a biologist to advise its shoe and clothing designers, and at centers like the new Biodesign Institute at Arizona State University, which plans to build nearly $350 million of laboratory and conference facilities over the next few years. 

It is all part of an emerging science known as biomimicry that studies nature's models and imitates and adapts them for human use. Some of biomimicry's first fruits can already be found in such disparate applications as fabrics and house paints that emulate the uncanny ability of lotus leaves to repel dirt and water, carpets styled after the randomness of stones and leaves on forest floors, and superefficient fans and rotors. 

The gap between natural inspiration and profitable invention sometimes remains hard to bridge. Three years ago a Canadian company called Nexia Biotechnologies generated headlines when it spliced spider genes into goats and created what it called the world's first man-made spider silk from the animals' milk. It named the product BioSteel. But the company couldn't economically mass-produce the fibers, and it quietly scuttled the project this year. Another goat- inspired product, Nike's Goat-Tek, a late-1990s trail shoe with a sole modeled on a mountain goat's hoof, never bounded off store shelves and was discontinued. Some researchers remain skeptical. Asks Rustum Roy, professor emeritus of materials science at Pennsylvania State University: "Biomimicry may produce something useful in very tiny areas, but what else are we going to apply it to? Not to highways or steel mills." 

The speculative nature of many biomimicry projects means that they require big investments that can come only from government agencies, universities, and major corporations. At Lucent's Bell Laboratories, researcher Joanna Aizenberg has spent three years studying the brittle star, a relative of sea urchins and starfish. The five arms of the brittle star bristle with thousands of microscopic crystalline lenses. Together they act like one big eye, enabling the hand-sized invertebrate to spot predators and find hiding places in the shallow Caribbean waters where it lives. The curved lenses, which look like tiny bumps when seen under an electron microscope, are virtually perfect optical instruments, better than anything current technology allows. 

It's not just the lenses that captivate Aizenberg and her colleagues. The tiny crystals are surrounded by pigment-bearing pores that adjust the amount of light the lenses let in. "We don't want to re-create the brittle-star eye but to replicate the structure of the lens and pores," she says. Among other applications, the replicated array could give rise to faster fiber- optic networks and be used to replace the expensive lithographic masks that etch microscopic circuits onto silicon chips. Aizenberg estimates that such applications could be "maybe five years away," while conceding that's only a rough guess. 

PROBING NATURE AT THE MOLECULAR level is a hallmark of recent biomimicry work. Past efforts were confined to the macro world: Velcro began as a gleam in the eye of a Swiss inventor who studied the tiny hooks on cockleburs that stuck to his dog's fur. "Today's discipline focuses on small-scale remaking of biological materials," says Ilhan Aksay, professor of chemical engineering at Princeton University and principal investigator for the three-year-old Biologically Inspired Materials Institute, a consortium of research institutions funded by NASA to conduct basic research into space- flight materials. 

Mounted on bookshelves in Aksay's office are two abalone shells that embody properties that could help future spacecraft withstand cosmic radiation, micrometeorite strikes, and other hazards of interplanetary travel. Abalone shells are light yet extraordinarily tough: 1,000 times more energy is required to break the shells than to fracture the toughest man-made ceramics. Once cracked, moreover, the shells can repair themselves--something no ceramic can do. The abalone's toughness derives from layers of tiny calcium-carbonate plates that make up the shiny mother-of-pearl interior of its shell. When struck, the layers glide over one another to absorb the shock. If cracks develop, the plates simply grow back together. 

Inspired by this self-healing property, the Princeton researchers are using it as a model for structures that can be built in orbit. Similar principles could apply to military vehicles damaged in battle. Aksay holds up a prototype self-healing strut: a thin metal tube fitted with copper wire and filled with a solution of silica particles to serve as clotting agents. A break in the strut generates an electric field that causes the micron-sized particles to flow to and fill in the wound. Says Aksay: "We're looking at a five- to ten-year process to develop these materials." 

No less remarkable than the abalone shell is spider's silk. It is light, flexible, five times stronger than steel on a pound-for- pound basis, and tougher than bullet-resistant Kevlar--yet spiders spin it without the high heat, crushing pressure, or toxic chemicals required to produce man-made materials. Scientists have long searched for a way to produce such high-tensile fiber for applications ranging from medical sutures to body armor. 

Taking a different tack from the people who tried to make spider silk from goat's-milk, Oxford University professors David Knight and Fritz Vollrath have been moving toward a solution. Working with an Oxford-launched startup called Spinox and its German sister company Spin'tec Engineering, they are developing a system that mimics processes found inside spider glands. "We've produced beautiful, lustrous fibers," says Knight. Spin'tec wants to develop an "optimized and ruggedized" device for reeling out high-performance fiber within three years. Since the process is expensive, it will be used in biomedicine and other specialized applications. Future uses could range from fabrics for protective clothing to materials for airbags and seatbelts. 

The spider's secret lies in how it spins its silk. Viscous, folded-up proteins are pulled from the gland by knobby appendages called spinnerets and emerge as glistening silk strands. The tough "dragline" silk for the spokelike frame of a web and the sticky "capture silk" for the cross-threads come from different glands. Since spiders are solitary predators and produce relatively little protein, the scientists use silkworms, whose silk has some 80% of the toughness of spider's thread. Knight envisions future applications like supertough sutures for sewing up nerves, something that doesn't exist today. Knight says Spin'tec hopes to hit the market with a suture within the next two years. 

Spider webs' adhesiveness pales when compared with the feet of gecko lizards that can dart up walls, glide across ceilings, and hang by a single toe. The electrodynamic force that makes this possible is being exploited in robotics (see "Send in the Robots!" on fortune.com), but a far more wide-ranging application may lie in a new generation of smart adhesives. Since the billions of microscopic hairs on gecko feet stick to surfaces through molecular attractions rather than through gluelike bonds, they can be peeled off with little effort and come away dirt-free. This could lead to reusable self-cleaning tapes to anchor medical implants or dentures and give rise to other applications, from tire-traction-enhancing materials to fumble-free football gloves. 

"This is the screw of the future," says Kellar Autumn, a biologist at Lewis and Clark College in Portland, Ore., and a leading gecko researcher. Cellphones, for instance, are assembled with screws but can shatter when dropped; if they break, they can't be put back together. However, if the pieces were held together by gecko tape, the phone could resist impact or even become more tightly bonded when dropped. Several years ago a student of Autumn's used patches of gecko hair to make a "gecko Band-Aid" that could be applied to the skin and lifted off as if it had never been attached. "The detachment force is nearly zero," says Autumn, despite the fact that "at a subatomic level, the gecko hair becomes one with your finger." Gecko-inspired tape is already being fabricated at the University of California at Berkeley and at other locations. The process involves replicating gecko hairs by subdividing synthetic materials into billions of strips. Autumn says a commercial product could be available "in a couple of years." 

Other sources of natural adhesives are also being investigated. At Northwestern University, biomedical engineer Phillip Messersmith is working with the Pacific blue mussel, a common bivalve that secretes a substance that bonds to objects under water--something few synthetic glues can do. He has not only developed a laboratory model of this adhesive but has also used it to fashion a two-sided compound that sticks to virtually anything with one side while repelling bacteria and other contaminants with the other. This could prove invaluable for medical and dental applications such as repairing complex bone fractures, preventing blood-clot formation on cardiovascular devices, anchoring implants, and guarding against tooth decay. 

Why not just use blue-mussel adhesive itself? Too expensive, explains Messersmith: "You'd need an incredibly large number of mussels." His still-experimental biomimetic glue utilizes an amino acid called DOPA that is found at high concentration in mussel- adhesive protein; it adheres to wet surfaces and even to Teflon, a substance not even geckos can stick to. 

One of the most striking and common patterns in nature is the spiral found in phenomena as varied as human embryos, nautilus shells, whirlpools, and galaxies. The shape has fascinated Jayden Harman since his childhood in western Australia, when he noticed it in swirls of kelp while snorkeling. "Seaweed is fragile, but it survives in storms by changing its shape to let the water go by," says Harman, founder and CEO of PAX Scientific, a San Rafael, Calif., designer of high-efficiency rotors and fans. 

Unlike conventional fans that generate centrifugal forces, PAX Scientific's designs create centripetal flows that are pulled toward the center of the axis of rotation. This greatly reduces drag and generates energy savings. Founded in 1997, the company spent five years in R&D and now wants to license its technology. It launched commercialization efforts two years ago and is currently developing products with manufacturers in the automotive, industrial, and home- appliance fields. Some products could be in service as early as next year. Among the vast range of proposed applications are cooling fans for industrial, commercial, and consumer use, and mixers for blending paint and other products and for keeping municipal water systems fresh. 

With sustainability a hot topic, researchers are drawing upon natural processes to synthesize biodegradable plastics. At Cornell University, biological chemist Geoffrey Coates and his colleagues have used a zinc-based catalyst to produce plastics from ordinary carbon dioxide and a liquid derived from orange peels. The result is a polymer--or plastic--that could replace the polystyrene used in food packaging, plastic utensils, and other products. 

"We've got a very promising catalyst," says Coates, who notes that the world produces more than 150 million tons of plastics a year, nearly all of it nonbiodegradable and from energy-intensive processes that use petroleum-based feedstocks. Coates last year co- founded a company called Novomer to commercialize his process, which could roll out products within a year. "Either some other company comes along and licenses our catalyst or we develop the materials ourselves," he says. 

Metabolix, a company that sprang out of MIT in 1992, is targeting the production of natural plastics in plants and microbes. Some soil bacteria store energy in the form of plastic rather than as carbohydrates or fats, and Metabolix is expanding on these models to produce natural plastics. It is working with Archer Daniels Midland to build a fermentation plant that will use microbes to convert sugars and vegetable oils into plastic, beginning in 2008. 

In a second project, Metabolix teamed last March with Britain's BP to develop varieties of switchgrass--a prairie species on which buffalo once grazed--for extraction of commercial quantities of plastic; the leftover biomass could be used for fuel. Metabolix aims to have commercially viable, genetically engineered varieties of switchgrass in pilot fields in four or five years. "The plants would accumulate plastic in a benign manner," says CEO James Barber. "If you had these natural plastics in your hand, you couldn't tell the difference between them and the synthetic types in your cellphone housing, grocery bag, or food wrap." 

Of particular fascination to biomimics is the white lotus, a lily- like plant whose ability to keep clean in muddy waters makes it a symbol of purity in Asian religions. German botanists Wilhelm Barthlott and Christoph Neinhuis discovered the plant's secret in the 1970s, when they found that the smooth-looking surface of its leaves was really a bed of waxy microscopic bumps. Dirt perches on the frictionless nanoparticles and is easily washed off in a process the scientists dubbed the "lotus effect." 

Among the companies that have recently exploited this effect is Swiss textile maker Schoeller, whose fabric is widely used in ski apparel and other sportswear. Schoeller's NanoSphere finish incorporates microscopic particles from which dirt, oil, and grease can be washed. Garments made of the fabric sell throughout Europe and are available in North America from Westcomb of Vancouver, B.C., and Beyond Fleece in Oregon. 

To mimic the lotus-leaf surface, Schoeller coats fabric with modified silicon nanoparticles, explains CEO Hans-Jurgen Hubner. The toughest task is anchoring the particles to natural fabrics like cotton or wool whose fibers vary in thickness, unlike uniform synthetic fibers. The lotus effect is also featured in Lotusan exterior paints from Sto of Stuhlingen, Germany, which calls its coatings the first to use the self-cleaning principle. Sold throughout Europe, the paints recently became available in North America. 

Perhaps the ultimate biomimicry is computer software that mirrors evolution, nature's own method of design. Called genetic algorithms, or GAs, these programs replicate natural selection by creating myriad generations of possible solutions, nicknamed chromosomes. Testing the first generation of perhaps 10,000 chromosomes leads to the selection of a few best ones, which are replicated, spliced together, and mutated to create the next generation for testing. When repeated thousands of times, this process can solve problems ranging from factory production schedules to jet-engine design. The Space Technology 5 satellite that NASA plans to put in orbit next year will transmit data to Earth through an antenna created by testing some 20 million chromosomes. 

"There's an analogy between GA and what's going on in business," observes David Goldberg, director of the Illinois Genetic Algorithms Laboratory at Urbana-Champaign. "Selection plus mutation is like the continual improvement of quality engineering," he says, "and selection plus recombination is like discontinuous change or the disruptive change of innovation." 

For all its promise, biomimicry has only begun to explore its possibilities. Whether projects prove successful will depend on the ingenuity of scientists and the willingness of backers and investors to continue to support them. They had better be willing--billions of years of natural selection are a tough act to follow. 

FEEDBACK fortunemail_letters@fortunemail.com. Stories from the Industrial Management & Technology section can be found at fortune.com/imt. Executives in manufacturing and research and others eligible to receive FORTUNE's Industrial Edition can subscribe by calling 888-394-5472. 

COLOR PHOTO: DIETMAR BUSSE GECKO GLUE With billions of microscopic hairs on their feet (large photo), geckos can cling to surfaces through molecular attraction rather than chemical bonds. Engineers are using biologist Kellar Autumn's findings to develop smart adhesives. COLOR PHOTO: PAUL D. STEWART [See Caption Above] COLOR PHOTO A SIGHT FOR SEA EYES A relative of the sea urchin, the brittle star (shown at right by Bell Labs researcher Joanna Aizenberg) has five arms that are studded with thousands of microscopic lenses (above). Surrounded by pigment-bearing pores that react to the amount of light allowed in, the lenses serve as a single, all- seeing eye that lets the star watch for enemies and locate hiding places. Aizenberg wants to replicate their structure to develop faster fiber-optic networks and replace the lithographic masks used to etch microchips. COLOR PHOTO: DIETMAR BUSSE [See Caption Above] COLOR PHOTO: CORBIS SELF-HEALING SHELLS One thousand times more energy is needed to crack the shell of the abalone than to fracture the toughest ceramic. Its strength comes from layers of tiny calcium- carbonate plates (right) that make up the mother-of-pearl interior and slide over one another to absorb any blows. COLOR PHOTO: MICHAEL BUSSELLE--GETTY [See Caption Above] COLOR PHOTO: CORBIS SYMBOL OF PURITY Lotus leaves remain spotless in muddy waters. They are covered by microscopic waxy bumps that repel dirt, an effect that is being duplicated for ski apparel. 


Document FORTU00020050808e18m0000f


More Like This

 Article 475 *******************    



China and India -- The Leap Ahead: Research

A New Lab Partner For The U.S.? China's rapid rise in science could make it a valuable ally in breakthrough research 

By Bruce Einhorn and John Carey, with Neil Gross in New York 
1,179 words 
22 August 2005
BusinessWeek
116
Volume 3948
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

On a July afternoon, China's newly built Shanghai Institute for Antibodies is quiet. No researchers yet toil amid the recently installed rows of DNA analyzers, mass spectrometers, and other state-of-the-art scientific tools. But the hush is temporary, promises Guo Yajun, the center's chairman. By yearend 100 PhD researchers and 200 technicians and other staffers will be developing cancer treatments at the new $60 million facility in Shanghai's Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park. ``Everything is brand-new here,'' says Guo, 50, a professor of oncology and immunology at University of Nebraska's Eppley Institute who splits his time between the U.S. and China. ``The equipment is much better than my lab in the U.S.'' 

Researchers with U.S. experience like Guo are helping to power a remarkable surge in Chinese science. Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park has become a hotbed of new biotechnology research facilities. Eight government-run labs, including the Shanghai Transgenic Research Center, are located in the park, which is also home to 34 local and multinational drugmakers. Roche Holding Ltd. opened a research and development center nearby last year. And Chinese government spending on R&D is on the rise. It has more than tripled since 1998, and the number of scientific papers from Chinese researchers has more than doubled in that time. If current trends continue, says Richard B. Freeman, economics professor at Harvard University and director of labor studies at the National Bureau of Economic Research, ``by 2010, China will produce more science and engineering PhDs than the U.S.'' 

Such dramatic statistics are setting off alarms in the U.S., where Cassandras are quick to warn of a possible end to American preeminence in science. ``There is a good chance that U.S. competitiveness in vitally important high-tech areas will fall behind that of China'' and other countries, Johns Hopkins University President William R. Brody told a congressional panel on July 21. Experts worry that China is investing heavily in key areas like biotech and nanotech while U.S. funding for the National Institutes of Health has leveled off after a five-year doubling. Spending in some areas of the physical sciences has actually declined in real dollars. 

But that doesn't mean China will ever beat -- or even seriously challenge -- the U.S. in research and high tech. For one thing, China's advantages -- low costs, government support, and skilled researchers -- are still outweighed by shortcomings. These include an immature financial system that makes it hard for science-based startup companies to raise money, a copycat culture wherein intellectual-property pirates regularly rip off patents and copyrights, and weak links between China's universities and its top businesses. ``There's still a lot that needs to be done before China can be an innovative economy,'' says Lu Xianping, a 42-year-old native of western China's Sichuan province who did postdoctoral research at the University of California at San Diego and worked in the U.S. for a dozen years. He is now president and chief scientific officer of Shenzhen Chipscreen Biosciences Ltd., a drug-discovery startup he founded with six other Western-educated PhDs. 

More important, China's rise doesn't have to be America's loss. Besides leading to benefits at home, Chinese R&D will add to the world's pool of knowledge. ``Science really doesn't have boundaries,'' explains Shu Chien, the China-born director of the Institute for Biomedical Engineering at the University of California at San Diego and a frequent visitor to the mainland. ``Whatever the Chinese publish, we will see here in the U.S., and we can step on each other's shoulders to move ahead faster. If we look at it as a friendly competition, everyone gets better.'' 

Experts increasingly see the chance of a win-win result from the combination of Chinese and American research might. That was one of the motivations for Wise Young, director of the W.M. Keck Center for Collaborative Neuroscience at Rutgers University, when he decided to set up a network of 17 clinical centers in China and train researchers to test new therapies. Born in Hong Kong, Young is a leader in the search for spinal-cord injury cures. A few years ago he had a visit from Chinese gymnast Sang Lan, who broke her neck practicing for the Goodwill Games in 1998. ``She asked, if I discover the cure, how will it get back to China?'' Young recalls. ``I said that the only way China would get the therapy was if it actually did the clinical trials.'' 

Young's clinical centers could help China become a leader in important new areas such as stem cells and nerve regeneration. They could also offer a way for Western companies to get their own treatments to market more quickly, Young says. Costs for conducting clinical trials in China are about one-fourth of those in the U.S. And while China was previously known for poorly regulating clinical trials, the government is beefing up standards in a bid to attract more Western companies to test drugs there. 

TECH FOR TODAY 

Beijing is also working hard to lure American-educated Chinese scientists back to the mainland. One way to do that is by hiring returnees such as Han Jie, 48, a University of Utah PhD in materials science and engineering, to run government institutes. Han worked for IBM and for NASA's Ames Center for Nanotechnology before becoming director of a premier Chinese nanotech lab, the National Engineering Research Center for Nanotechnology in Shanghai, last spring. Next year, Han and his team will move to a new $15 million complex equipped with top-of-the line facilities. Among other projects, the center is working on energy-efficient streetlights made from nanomaterials. ``In the U.S., we try to build up technology for the future, but in China, I try to build technology that can be used today,'' Han says. 

It's too early to tell what results labs like Han's will achieve. But experts such as Horst L. Stormer, a Nobel prize laureate and director of Columbia University's nanotech center, have returned from visiting China's top nanotech institutes impressed by the science. Stormer is convinced the Chinese will become major players. ``We talked at the same level,'' he says, adding that the Chinese were doing ``top-notch research.'' 

No doubt, some Chinese scientists will wind up becoming world-beaters, challenging their counterparts in the U.S. What's important is that researchers from both countries also expand their efforts at collaboration. That will pay off for all. 

illustration | Illustration: Chart: How Chinese Science Stacks Up CHARTS BY ERIC HOFFMANN/BW | photograph | Photograph: SHARING KNOWHOW: Chipscreen was founded by Western-educated PhDs PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HARTUNG 


Document BW00000020050818e18m0001a


More Like This

 Article 476 *******************    



China and India -- The Challenge: The Shape of t

A New World Economy; The balance of power will shift to the East as China and India evolve 

By Pete Engardio 
3,684 words 
22 August 2005
BusinessWeek
52
Volume 3948
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

It may not top the must-see list of many tourists. But to appreciate Shanghai's ambitious view of its future, there is no better place than the Urban Planning Exhibition Hall, a glass-and-metal structure across from People's Square.The highlight is a scale model bigger than a basketball court of the entire metropolis -- every skyscraper, house, lane, factory, dock, and patch of green space -- in the year 2020. 

There are white plastic showpiece towers designed by architects such as I.M. Pei and Sir Norman Foster. There are immense new industrial parks for autos and petrochemicals, along with new subway lines, airport runways, ribbons of expressway, and an elaborate riverfront development, site of the 2010 World Expo. Nine futuristic planned communities for 800,000 residents each, with generous parks, retail districts, man-made lakes, and nearby college campuses, rise in the suburbs. The message is clear. Shanghai already is looking well past its industrial age to its expected emergence as a global mecca of knowledge workers. ``In an information economy, it is very important to have urban space with a better natural and social environment,'' explains Architectural Society of Shanghai President Zheng Shiling, a key city adviser. 

It is easy to dismiss such dreams as bubble-economy hubris -- until you take into account the audacious goals Shanghai already has achieved. Since 1990, when the city still seemed caught in a socialist time warp, Shanghai has erected enough high-rises to fill Manhattan. The once-rundown Pudong district boasts a space-age skyline, some of the world's biggest industrial zones, dozens of research centers, and a bullet train. This is the story of China, where an extraordinary ability to mobilize workers and capital has tripled per capita income in a generation, and has eased 300 million out of poverty. Leaders now are frenetically laying the groundwork for decades of new growth. 

INVALUABLE ROLE 

Now hop a plane to India. It is hard to tell this is the world's other emerging superpower. Jolting sights of extreme poverty abound even in the business capitals. A lack of subways and a dearth of expressways result in nightmarish traffic. 

But visit the office towers and research and development centers sprouting everywhere, and you see the miracle. Here, Indians are playing invaluable roles in the global innovation chain. Motorola, Hewlett-Packard, Cisco Systems, and other tech giants now rely on their Indian teams to devise software platforms and dazzling multimedia features for next-generation devices. Google principal scientist Krishna Bharat is setting up a Bangalore lab complete with colorful furniture, exercise balls, and a Yamaha organ -- like Google's Mountain View (Calif.) headquarters -- to work on core search-engine technology. Indian engineering houses use 3-D computer simulations to tweak designs of everything from car engines and forklifts to aircraft wings for such clients as General Motors Corp. and Boeing Co. Financial and market-research experts at outfits like B2K, OfficeTiger, and Iris crunch the latest disclosures of blue-chip companies for Wall Street. By 2010 such outsourcing work is expected to quadruple, to $56 billion a year. 

Even more exhilarating is the pace of innovation, as tech hubs like Bangalore spawn companies producing their own chip designs, software, and pharmaceuticals. ``I find Bangalore to be one of the most exciting places in the world,'' says Dan Scheinman, Cisco Systems Inc.'s senior vice-president for corporate development. ``It is Silicon Valley in 1999.'' Beyond Bangalore, Indian companies are showing a flair for producing high-quality goods and services at ridiculously low prices (page 64), from $50 air flights and crystal-clear 2 cents-a-minute cell-phone service to $2,200 cars and cardiac operations by top surgeons at a fraction of U.S. costs. Some analysts see the beginnings of hypercompetitive multinationals. ``Once they learn to sell at Indian prices with world quality, they can compete anywhere,'' predicts University of Michigan management guru C.K. Prahalad. Adds A. T. Kearney high-tech consultant John Ciacchella: ``I don't think U.S. companies realize India is building next-generation service companies.'' 

SIMULTANEOUS TAKEOFFS 

China and India. Rarely has the economic ascent of two still relatively poor nations been watched with such a mixture of awe, opportunism, and trepidation. The postwar era witnessed economic miracles in Japan and South Korea. But neither was populous enough to power worldwide growth or change the game in a complete spectrum of industries. China and India, by contrast, possess the weight and dynamism to transform the 21st-century global economy. The closest parallel to their emergence is the saga of 19th-century America, a huge continental economy with a young, driven workforce that grabbed the lead in agriculture, apparel, and the high technologies of the era, such as steam engines, the telegraph, and electric lights. 

But in a way, even America's rise falls short in comparison to what's happening now. Never has the world seen the simultaneous, sustained takeoffs of two nations that together account for one-third of the planet's population. For the past two decades, China has been growing at an astounding 9.5% a year, and India by 6%. Given their young populations, high savings, and the sheer amount of catching up they still have to do, most economists figure China and India possess the fundamentals to keep growing in the 7%-to-8% range for decades. 

Barring cataclysm, within three decades India should have vaulted over Germany as the world's third-biggest economy. By mid-century, China should have overtaken the U.S. as No. 1. By then, China and India could account for half of global output. Indeed, the troika of China, India, and the U.S. -- the only industrialized nation with significant population growth -- by most projections will dwarf every other economy. 

What makes the two giants especially powerful is that they complement each other's strengths. An accelerating trend is that technical and managerial skills in both China and India are becoming more important than cheap assembly labor. China will stay dominant in mass manufacturing, and is one of the few nations building multibillion-dollar electronics and heavy industrial plants. India is a rising power in software, design, services, and precision industry. This raises a provocative question: What if the two nations merge into one giant ``Chindia?'' Rival political and economic ambitions make that unlikely. But if their industries truly collaborate, ``they would take over the world tech industry,'' predicts Forrester Research Inc. analyst Navi Radjou. 

In a practical sense, the yin and yang of these immense workforces already are converging. True, annual trade between the two economies is just $14 billion. But thanks to the Internet and plunging telecom costs, multinationals are having their goods built in China with software and circuitry designed in India. As interactive design technology makes it easier to perfect virtual 3-D prototypes of everything from telecom routers to turbine generators on PCs, the distance between India's low-cost laboratories and China's low-cost factories shrinks by the month. Managers in the vanguard of globalization's new wave say the impact will be nothing less than explosive. ``In a few years you'll see most companies unleashing this massive productivity surge,'' predicts Infosys Technologies CEO Nandan M. Nilekani. 

To globalization's skeptics, however, what's good for Corporate America translates into layoffs and lower pay for workers. Little wonder the West is suffering from future shock. Each new Chinese corporate takeover bid or revelation of a major Indian outsourcing deal elicits howls of protest by U.S. politicians. Washington think tanks are publishing thick white papers charting China's rapid progress in microelectronics, nanotech, and aerospace -- and painting dark scenarios about what it means for America's global leadership. 

Such alarmism is understandable. But the U.S. and other established powers will have to learn to make room for China and India (page 134). For in almost every dimension -- as consumer markets, investors, producers, and users of energy and commodities -- they will be 21st-century heavyweights. The growing economic might will carry into geopolitics as well. China and India are more assertively pressing their interests in the Middle East and Africa, and China's military will likely challenge U.S. dominance in the Pacific. 

One implication is that the balance of power in many technologies will likely move from West to East. An obvious reason is that China and India graduate a combined half a million engineers and scientists a year, vs. 60,000 in the U.S. In life sciences, projects the McKinsey Global Institute, the total number of young researchers in both nations will rise by 35%, to 1.6 million by 2008. The U.S. supply will drop by 11%, to 760,000. As most Western scientists will tell you, China and India already are making important contributions in medicine and materials that will help everyone. Because these nations can throw more brains at technical problems at a fraction of the cost, their contributions to innovation will grow. 

CONSUMERS RISING 

American business isn't just shifting research work because Indian and Chinese brains are young, cheap, and plentiful. In many cases, these engineers combine skills -- mastery of the latest software tools, a knack for complex mathematical algorithms, and fluency in new multimedia technologies -- that often surpass those of their American counterparts. As Cisco's Scheinman puts it: ``We came to India for the costs, we stayed for the quality, and we're now investing for the innovation.'' 

A rising consumer class also will drive innovation. This year, China's passenger car market is expected to reach 3 million, No. 3 in the world. China already has the world's biggest base of cell-phone subscribers -- 350 million -- and that is expected to near 600 million by 2009. In two years, China should overtake the U.S. in homes connected to broadband. Less noticed is that India's consumer market is on the same explosive trajectory as China five years ago. Since 2000, the number of cellular subscribers has rocketed from 5.6 million to 55 million. 

What's more, Chinese and Indian consumers and companies now demand the latest technologies and features. Studies show the attitudes and aspirations of today's young Chinese and Indians resemble those of Americans a few decades ago. Surveys of thousands of young adults in both nations by marketing firm Grey Global Group found they are overwhelmingly optimistic about the future, believe success is in their hands, and view products as status symbols. In China, it's fashionable for the upwardly mobile to switch high-end cell phones every three months, says Josh Li, managing director of Grey's Beijing office, because an old model suggests ``you are not getting ahead and updated.'' That means these nations will be huge proving grounds for next-generation multimedia gizmos, networking equipment, and wireless Web services, and will play a greater role in setting global standards. In consumer electronics, ``we will see China in a few years going from being a follower to a leader in defining consumer-electronics trends,'' predicts Philips Semiconductors Executive Vice-President Leon Husson. 

For all the huge advantages they now enjoy, India and China cannot assume their role as new superpowers is assured. Today, China and India account for a mere 6% of global gross domestic product -- half that of Japan. They must keep growing rapidly just to provide jobs for tens of millions entering the workforce annually, and to keep many millions more from crashing back into poverty. Both nations must confront ecological degradation that's as obvious as the smog shrouding Shanghai and Bombay, and face real risks of social strife, war, and financial crisis (page 60). 

Increasingly, such problems will be the world's problems. Also, with wages rising fast, especially in many skilled areas, the cheap labor edge won't last forever (page 122). Both nations will go through many boom and harrowing bust cycles. And neither country is yet producing companies like Samsung, Nokia, or Toyota that put it all together, developing, making, and marketing world-beating products. 

Both countries, however, have survived earlier crises and possess immense untapped potential. In China, serious development only now is reaching the 800 million people in rural areas, where per capita annual income is just $354. In areas outside major cities, wages are as little as 45 cents an hour. ``This is why China can have another 20 years of high-speed growth,'' contends Beijing University economist Hai Wen. 

Very impressive. But India's long-term potential may be even higher. Due to its one-child policy, China's working-age population will peak at 1 billion in 2015 and then shrink steadily. China then will have to provide for a graying population that has limited retirement benefits. India has nearly 500 million people under age 19 and higher fertility rates. By mid-century, India is expected to have 1.6 billion people -- and 220 million more workers than China. That could be a source for instability, but a great advantage for growth if the government can provide education and opportunity for India's masses. New Delhi just now is pushing to open its power, telecom, commercial real estate and retail sectors to foreigners. These industries could lure big capital inflows. ``The pace of institutional changes and industries being liberalized is phenomenal,'' says Chief Economist William T. Wilson of consultancy Keystone Business Intelligence India. ``I believe India has a better model than China, and over time will surpass it in growth.'' 

For its part, China has yet to prove it can go beyond forced-march industrialization. China directs massive investment into public works and factories, a wildly successful formula for rapid growth and job creation. But considering its massive manufacturing output, China is surprisingly weak in innovation. A full 57% of exports are from foreign-invested factories, and China underachieves in software, even with 35 software colleges and plans to graduate 200,000 software engineers a year. It's not for lack of genius. Microsoft Corp.'s 180-engineer R&D lab in Beijing, for example, is one of the world's most productive sources of innovation in computer graphics and language simulation. 

While China's big state-run R&D institutes are close to the cutting edge at the theoretical level, they have yet to yield many commercial breakthroughs. ``China has a lot of capability,'' says Microsoft Chief Technology Officer Craig Mundie. ``But when you look under the covers, there is not a lot of collaboration with industry.'' The lack of intellectual property protection, and Beijing's heavy role in building up its own tech companies, make many other multinationals leery of doing serious R&D in China. 

China also is hugely wasteful. Its 9.5% growth rate in 2004 is less impressive when you consider that $850 billion -- half of GDP -- was plowed into already-glutted sectors like crude steel, vehicles, and office buildings. Its factories burn fuel five times less efficiently than in the West, and more than 20% of bank loans are bad. Two-thirds of China's 13,000 listed companies don't earn back their true cost of capital, estimates Beijing National Accounting Institute President Chen Xiaoyue. ``We build the roads and industrial parks, but we sacrifice a lot,'' Chen says. 

India, by contrast, has had to develop with scarcity. It gets scant foreign investment, and has no room to waste fuel and materials like China. India also has Western legal institutions, a modern stock market, and private banks and corporations. As a result, it is far more capital-efficient. A BusinessWeek analysis of Standard & Poor's Compustat data on 346 top listed companies in both nations shows Indian corporations have achieved higher returns on equity and invested capital in the past five years in industries from autos to food products (page 73). The average Indian company posted a 16.7% return on capital in 2004, vs. 12.8% in China. 

SMALL-BATCH EXPERTISE 

The burning question is whether India can replicate China's mass manufacturing achievement. India's info-tech services industry, successful as it is, employs fewer than 1 million people. But 200 million Indians subsist on $1 a day or less. Export manufacturing is one of India's best hopes of generating millions of new jobs. 

India has sophisticated manufacturing knowhow. Tata Steel is among the world's most-efficient producers. The country boasts several top precision auto parts companies, such as Bharat Forge Ltd. The world's biggest supplier of chassis parts to major auto makers, it employs 1,200 engineers at its heavily automated Pune plant. India's forte is small-batch production of high-value goods requiring lots of engineering, such as power generators for Cummins Inc. (page 82) and core components for General Electric Co. CAT scanners. 

What holds India back are bureaucratic red tape, rigid labor laws, and its inability to build infrastructure fast enough. There are hopeful signs. Nokia Corp. is building a major campus to make cell phones in Madras, and South Korea's Pohang Iron & Steel Co. plans a $12 billion complex by 2016 in Orissa state. But it will take India many years to build the highways, power plants, and airports needed to rival China in mass manufacturing. With Beijing now pushing software and pledging intellectual property rights protection, some Indians fret design work will shift to China to be closer to factories. ``The question is whether China can move from manufacturing to services faster than we can solve our infrastructure bottlenecks,'' says President Aravind Melligeri of Bangalore-based QuEST, whose 700 engineers design gas turbines, aircraft engines, and medical gear for GE and other clients. 

However the race plays out, Corporate America has little choice but to be engaged -- heavily. Motorola illustrates the value of leveraging both nations to lower costs and speed up development. Most of its hardware is assembled and partly designed in China. Its R&D center in Bangalore devises about 40% of the software in its new phones. The Bangalore team developed the multimedia software and user interfaces in the hot Razr cell phone. Now, they are working on phones that display and send live video, stream movies from the Web, or route incoming calls to voicemail when you are shifting gears in a car. ``This is a very, very critical, state-of-the-art resource for Motorola,'' says Motorola South Asia President Amit Sharma. 

Companies like Motorola realize they must succeed in China and India at many levels simultaneously to stay competitive. That requires strategies for winning consumers, recruiting and managing R&D and professional talent, and skillfully sourcing from factories. ``Over the next few years, you will see a dramatic gap opening between companies,'' predicts Jim Hemerling, who runs Boston Consulting Group's Shanghai practice. ``It will be between those who get it and are fully mobilized in China and India, and those that are still pondering.'' 

In the coming decades, China and India will disrupt workforces, industries, companies, and markets in ways that we can barely begin to imagine. The upheaval will test America's commitment to the global trade system, and shake its confidence. In the 19th century, Europe went through a similar trauma when it realized a new giant -- the U.S. -- had arrived. ``It is up to America to manage its own expectation of China and India as either a threat or opportunity,'' says corporate strategist Kenichi Ohmae. ``America should be as open-minded as Europe was 100 years ago.'' How these Asian giants integrate with the rest of the world will largely shape the 21st-century global economy. 

A Profile Of Youth In India And China 

CHINA: 

66% OF YOUNG CHINESE ADULTS REGARD THEMSELVES AS INDIVIDUALISTS 

23% OF YOUNG CHINESE ADULTS SAY IT IS NOT IMPORTANT TO HAVE A CHILD 

64% OF YOUNG ADULTS SAY MARRIED MEN SHOULD DO HOUSEWORK 

INDIA: 

62% OF YOUNG SINGLE WOMEN SAY IT IS O.K. TO HAVE FAULTS THAT OTHERS CAN SEE 

76% OF YOUNG SINGLE WOMEN SAY THEY SHOULD DECIDE WHEN TO HAVE A CHILD 

51% OF YOUNG URBAN WOMEN SAY A BIG HOUSE AND CAR ARE KEY TO HAPPINESS 

Data: Grey Global Group 

illustration | Illustration: Chart: The Strengths and Weaknesses CHARTS BY ALBERTO MENA/BW | illustration | Illustration: Chart: The Strengths and Weaknesses CHARTS BY ALBERTO MENA/BW | illustration | Illustration: Chart: Handicapping the Race CHARTS BY ALBERTO MENA/BW | illustration | Illustration: Chart: Surging in Tech Adoption CHARTS BY ALBERTO MENA/BW | illustration | Illustration: Chart: China's Hunger For Raw Materials CHARTS BY ALBERTO MENA/BW | illustration | Illustration: Chart: Booming Growth In Young Professionals CHARTS BY ALBERTO MENA/BW | illustration | Illustration: Chart: Reshaping The Global Economy CHARTS BY ALBERTO MENA/BW | photograph | Photograph: A model of Shanghai in 2020 at the Urban Planning Exhibition Hall PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HARTUNG | photograph | Photograph: SOUTHWEST STYLE: Shanghai's Rancho Santa Fe subdivision PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HARTUNG | photograph | Photograph: CHINA: WHAT'S COOL: Bar Rouge It's 4 a.m. Do you know where the A-listers are? For Shanghai insiders, Party Headquarters these days is Bar Rouge on the waterfront Bund. With its scarlet upholstered alcoves draped with billowing curtains, the room looks like a cross between an Austin Powers movie and a belle epoque salon. The bartenders are known for dousing the 33-foot-long bar with vodka and setting it alight, and there's a terrace with spectacular views. By 2 a.m. the place is in full wail, but unless you're on the A-list, you'll be seven floors below, stranded on the street. For those with their party credentials in order, the action stretches till dawn. PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HARTUNG | photograph | Photograph: FASHIONABLE: Shopping in a Bombay suburb PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB ELLIOTT/AFP/GETTY IMAGES | photograph | Photograph: NO DRAB LAB: Scientist Bharat at Google India in Bangalore PHOTOGRAPH BY NAMAS BHOJANI 


Document BW00000020050818e18m0000u


More Like This

 Article 477 *******************    



Nanotechnology Hits the Tennis Court --- Latest Rackets Use Magnets, Tiny Crystals to Add Power; A 54% Bigger Sweet Spot 

By Ellen Sheng 
1,303 words 
25 August 2005
The Wall Street Journal
D1
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

WHEN NO. 1 men's player Roger Federer steps onto the court at the U.S. Open later this month, he will be wielding a racket infused with nanoparticles that will make it feel more solid without any added weight. Andre Agassi will be using a specially designed racket that can "cup" a ball on impact -- giving him a bit more control. 

The manufacturers of those rackets, in an effort to give their revenue some extra topspin, are making the same technology available to recreational players as well. Head, Prince, Babolat, Wilson and Fischer are among those featuring nanotechnology, magnetic forces, aerodynamics and advanced physics principles in their new rackets, which claim to help players add power and precision to their strokes. 

One of the most high-tech offerings comes from Fischer GmbH. The Austrian sporting-goods maker, best known for its ski equipment, is gearing up to unveil a new racket next month that garners the power of magnets. 

Named "Magnetic Speed," the racket has similarly charged magnets hidden on either side of the head. The magnets repel each other to help the racket bounce back into shape after impact with the ball. The idea is that the faster recovery gives the ball more speed and power. 

To power the magnets, the racket uses piezoelectric crystals inside the shaft: When the racket hits the ball, that instantly fires up the magnets and forces the racket back to its original shape. The racket, which will retail for about $189, will be out in stores this fall. It has already been introduced in Europe and is used by top players such as Andrei Pavel and Vera Zvonareva. 

The new crop of rackets are an effort to create some new excitement for recreational players -- much as the introduction of graphite in the late 1970s allowed for larger heads and bigger sweet spots. Since then, some of the recent technology advances have seemed "gimmicky," says Adam Furber, an amateur tennis player in Hong Kong who hits the courts two to three times a week. Formerly a competitive tennis player in college, Mr. Furber says he tends to seek out rackets that are most like his previous ones. 

"Is it going to make me have a better forehand? No," says Bill Severa, global director of technology for Wilson Tennis. But, he says, new technology can make rackets last longer and feel better in a player's hands. 

Sales of tennis gear have picked up in recent years but are down from a decade ago. According to the Tennis Industry Association, a trade organization, companies sold about 3.9 million rackets in 2004. That's up from 3.1 million in 2003 and 3.3 million in 2002, but down from 4.4 million in 1992. The number of players has been essentially flat at about 24 million since 2000, the association says. 

Technological advances keep customers coming back for new models, says Mark Mason, owner of Mason's Tennis, a specialty tennis shop in Manhattan that sells close to 2,000 rackets a year. "People want new rackets when they come out," he says. "They are not waiting for the [old] racket to break, believe me." 

That is why companies are tinkering with racket shapes and materials. Dutch sporting-goods maker Head NV's Flexpoint, introduced in March and favored by Mr. Agassi, has special holes and "dimples" positioned on either side of the head at 3 and 9 o'clock; the company says the dimples effectively cut into the frame, making the head more flexible and able to curve around a ball. Head says this design gives added control without sacrificing power. 

Head has nine models for different player levels; each costs about $200. Mr. Agassi won his 60th career title with a Flexpoint. 

Prince Sports Inc., a closely held New Jersey racket maker, has also changed the design of the string holes. The company, which introduced the first "oversized" racket, replaced the old pin-sized holes with large oval-shaped ones in its new "O3" racket. The oval holes help the strings become more responsive and increase the racket's sweet spot by 54%, Prince says. Large holes also make the racket more aerodynamic, it adds, allowing users to swing the racket more easily. 

The racket has four models that range in price from $220 to $300. Top players using the racket include Guillermo Coria and Paola Suarez, both of Argentina. 

In addition to design, companies have also altered the materials used in tennis rackets. Both Wilson Sporting Goods Inc., a Chicago-based sporting-goods maker owned by Amer Sports Oy of Finland, and French maker Babolat have rolled out rackets that incorporate nanotechnology. 

Babolat began adding carbon nanotubes to some of its rackets in 2003. Carbon nanotubes are 10 times stiffer than conventional graphite and are extremely durable. The nanotubes are placed at strategic locations along the frame in an effort to make the rackets stiffer and more powerful. Designed for recreational players, the rackets sell for $199. 

Wilson, the biggest racket maker in the U.S., started adding nanosize silicon dioxide crystals to its "nCode" racket -- Mr. Federer's favorite -- last spring. The nCode starts at $170 and goes up to $300. Besides Mr. Federer, Lindsay Davenport and Serena and Venus Williams are among those who use it. 

New racket technology has helped make tennis more appealing to ordinary players. "One of the extra benefits of modern tennis is people learn more quickly ... the newer rackets are far more forgiving," says Stuart Miller, technical manager at the International Tennis Association. 

Tennis's stars don't always adopt the newest high-tech racket -- Pete Sampras stuck with the Wilson ProStaff for years. But deals between manufacturers and professionals often mean that big-name players are outfitted in the newest tennis technology. 

The official rules of tennis allow for quite a bit of variation among rackets. The International Tennis Federation, which establishes basic tennis regulations that are adopted at all tournaments, doesn't actively approve rackets. It only tests models when manufacturers approach it or when rackets include claims that seem to flout regulations. 

The rules of tennis specify, for instance, that a racket "shall be free of any device which makes it possible to change materially the shape of the racket or to change the weight distribution." A team of researchers in the United Kingdom meets twice a year to evaluate suspicious models. 

A variety of innovations have been banned in years past, including Head's Tsi7 racket and the Dynaspot movable mass racket, which has a liquid-filled inner tube inside the head that moves weight around the racket during a swing. The federation also banned "spaghetti"-strung rackets, which were found to create excessive spin. (With those rackets, the strings don't crossover each other, which is the case with most rackets.) 

Reflecting the increasing pace of change, the International Tennis Federation has changed its tennis-racket rules 14 times since first putting them into words in 1978. It doesn't look like that trend will slow down anytime soon. 

--- 


                              High-Tech Tennis 
 
  A look at some of the rackets that boast new technologies 
 
  -- Wilson nCode 
  Price: $170 to $300 
  Comment: Uses minuscule silicon dioxide crystals to fill holes in 
the graphite, which Wilson says add strength without adding weight. 
 
  -- Prince 03 
  Price: $220 to $300 
  Comment: Company says larger oval-shaped holes increase the racket's 
"sweet spot" by over 50%. 
 
  -- Head Flexpoint 
  Price: $200 
  Comment: Company says the holes in the racket allow the frame to 
"cup" the ball on contact, enhancing control.    

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: The High-Tech Racket" -- WSJ Sept. 16, 2005) 

Document J000000020050825e18p0002n


More Like This

 Article 478 *******************    



WEEKEND JOURNAL

Taste -- de gustibus: In New Orleans, Moral Levees Are Inundated Too 

By Tunku Varadarajan 
693 words 
2 September 2005
The Wall Street Journal
W11
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Untamed water inspires awe of a magnitude that other sources of death and destruction -- fire, say, or earthquakes -- cannot match. What is it about water? Here I can only speculate, never having been endangered, personally, by any of those forces. 

Perhaps it is because water is normally agreeable to the touch that death by its excess is harder to accept. Whatever the reason, pictures of crowds fleeing New Orleans before (and after) the onrush of water and, later, of an inundated metropolis -- a waterlogged civitas -- have held the imagination in thrall these past few days. 

Elias Canetti has a passage in his "Crowds and Power" that fits the exodus from New Orleans: "The most striking thing about mass flight is the force of its direction. . . . Strange and widely dissimilar creatures who have never come near each other before suddenly find themselves together. In their flight all distances between them disappear, though the differences of course do not." 

Nature has played the role of leveler, though, as Canetti suggests, such arbitrary leveling is a transient thing: Disparities, whether of prospect, luck, opportunity or behavior, tend quickly to return. 

Yet these disparities have not been as evident among those who fled as they have among those who stayed. Some of those who remained on the scene of the disaster have offered us a disconcerting form of civic theater: And as one has watched this theater, one has recoiled from the actors' visible retreat into a primitive state. 

--- 

I must make clear, here, that there are two dimensions to the primitiveness to which I refer. The first is of a circumstantial kind, for which the hapless residents left behind in New Orleans bear no blame. For all our nanotech wonders and Star Wars lasers, our computers and great big cars, a major city and a substantial population were reduced, within hours, to Third World circumstances: there is little food, little cash, scarce potable water. There are no flushing toilets. A barter economy has returned. Physical strength has suddenly become more important than knowledge, or education. Everything smells. 

For Americans, this is humbling, and aggravating. The people of this country have, arguably, a greater ability to comprehend -- and to sympathize with the victims of -- a natural disaster on foreign soil than on American. Taming nature is part of America's Founding Myth. Such devastation as we have seen in New Orleans runs counter to American achievement and triumph. 

Many Americans, it is fair to say, are also uncomfortable with -- and even rather embarrassed by -- helplessness in their own midst. Tsunami victims in Aceh and Sri Lanka are a better fit in the natural order, and giving help to them -- large-heartedly, generously, peerlessly -- reinforces America's self-image as the Bounteous Land. But when things go wrong in the Bounteous Land, and among our own, irrepressible consternation seeps into equally irrepressible compassion. 

--- 

Consternation, of course, is an appropriate response to the other primitive dimension that one has witnessed in New Orleans -- and which, perversely, has provided some of the defining images of Hurricane Katrina's aftermath. 

Looters have emerged, as if from some dark corner of the civic soul. They have emerged -- with seemingly brazen inevitability -- to take, to tarnish, to turn our sympathy into rage, our compassion into gloom. 

The looting has not been a matter -- at some level defensible -- of hungry hordes snatching at food that does not belong to them. People have taken things for which they could not have had immediate and pressing need -- dishwashers, sporting goods, car parts, fancy clothes -- in some sort of nihilistic fetishization of material objects. 

There has been a descent so clear into indecency that one must address it as pressingly as the breakdown of the city's levees. It is as if the moral and civic "levees," too, were overwhelmed by the torrent. Once the waters have receded, New Orleans will face a task that will test our national mettle. A part of that task will be to ask why so many stooped so low as the waters rose so high. 

Document J000000020050902e1920001r


More Like This

 Article 479 *******************    



Voices of Innovation

Horst Stormer And The Next Tiny Thing; The Nobel laureate's goal: Transistors that bond and assemble like molecules 

By Burt Helm 
627 words 
5 September 2005
BusinessWeek
22
Volume 3949
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Horst Stormer kicks back in his spacious office in Columbia University's new Nanoscience and Engineering Center. Out the window are sweeping views of uptown Manhattan and the campus where the Nobel laureate in physics is learning a new craft: chemistry. ``Biology never invented the copper wire,'' he proclaims. ``Electric signal transmission in your body and brain is terribly slow -- really just a bucket brigade [of cells] passing ions along,'' he says. In contrast, electricity flows through the copper wire on computer chips at close to the speed of light. Yet, he adds, biology pulls off one thing that trumps humanity's best technology: Starting with just two cells, it builds people with complex brains that sparkle with creativity. Biology's chemical factory, he marvels, regularly pulls off wonders of self-assembly. 

Combine those same powers of self-assembly with modern materials, and it could mean the Next Big Thing in the world of computing. That's the goal driving much of his work at Columbia's Nanocenter. 

Under the guidance of Stormer, who is one of three directors, scientists are working to harness molecules' natural ability to bond and assemble -- and organize into high-performance, nano-size transistors and sophisticated circuits that will make today's computer chips seem like simpletons. Finding the key to nature's self-assembly bag of tricks also promises to help end the need for billion-dollar chipmaking plants and shrink electronic chips down to the molecular level. That promise is why Stormer, at age 56, is venturing into the world where physics meets chemistry. 

While a young scientist at Bell Laboratories in the late 1970s, Stormer pondered the mysteries of quantum mechanics -- a realm of physics where subatomic particles defy classical rules and everyday logic. In 1981 he and fellow Bell Labs researcher Daniel Tsui were examining how electrons move through semiconductors under powerful magnetic fields and at extremely low temperatures. They made a bizarre discovery: Electrons can lose their discrete charge and behave as a sort of fluid. The observation, which was explained in theory a year later by Robert Laughlin at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, led to new understanding of the properties of subatomic particles. In 1998, the three scientists shared a Nobel prize in physics. 

These days, Stormer is hoping to make a similar leap of discovery in the emerging field of nanoelectronics. If Moore's Law, which calls for computer power to double every 18 months or so, is to hold, just making transistors smaller will no longer be sufficient. For tomorrow's nano-size devices, the challenge is connecting them into functioning circuits. To illustrate the problem, Stormer holds up a pencil. If it were a molecular-sized transistor, attaching today's skinniest wires, he says, would be like tacking a truck on either end. So it's vital for connecting wires to self-assemble. But mimicking biology's secrets enters a ``no-man's land'' between chemistry and physics. In Stormer's group, chemists and physicists work side by side to understand how electricity travels through organic molecules, and then tease them to assemble into complex structures. 

The center's work is in its early days. The team is still exploring various molecules to determine which are duds as semiconductors and which could be high-performance wonders, and why. ``You've got the whole periodic table and all its possible combinations'' for building candidate molecules, says Stormer. ``At some point, somebody's going to come up with the molecule'' that will replace silicon. Then the circuits for future computers and electronic gear will fall into place naturally, assembling themselves. 

Document BW00000020050901e1950000o


More Like This

 Article 480 *******************    



Developments to Watch: DIAGNOSTICS

A Different Kind Of Wet Cell 

By Constance Faivre d'Arcier Edited by Arlene Weintraub 
193 words 
5 September 2005
BusinessWeek
87
Volume 3949
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Humans have been exploiting the power of urine for centuries. The Romans brushed their teeth with it. Other cultures, such as the ancient Chinese, drank it to purify the body of all manner of ills. Now scientists in Singapore have devised a pee-powered battery to run tiny, portable test-kits for diseases such as diabetes. 

The kits work thanks to a tiny chip made of copper, magnesium, and paper laced with copper chloride. A drop of urine on the credit-card-sized device starts a chemical reaction that causes a tiny electrical current -- enough to test the sample for diseases. 

Dr. Ki Bang Lee, who led the research at Singapore's Institute of Bioengineering & Nanotechnology, is now working on chips powered by other bodily fluids. Lee figures cheap, disposable tests could help patients in underdeveloped countries to monitor their own minor health conditions. He also believes his invention could run a range of gizmos, including a saliva-powered emergency cell-phone. One lick may provide enough juice to make that vital call. 

Document BW00000020050901e1950000e


More Like This

 Article 481 *******************    



Developments to Watch: NANOTECHNOLOGY

Spinning And Weaving New Uses For Nanotubes

By Rod Kurtz Edited by Arlene Weintraub 
183 words 
5 September 2005
BusinessWeek
87
Volume 3949
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have long held great promise as building blocks for next-generation materials and electronic devices. Lighter and stronger than steel, CNTs can also conduct electricity well. But efforts to combine them into usable structures haven't yielded much success to date. In the Aug. 19 issue of Science, however, scientists in Texas and Australia outline a new method to spin CNTs into thin sheets. 

To make the sheets, trillions of individual CNTs -- chemically grown in forest-like clumps -- are teased together to create larger ropes, which in turn are merged into fabric strips. The resulting ultralight material -- an acre's worth would weigh as little as 4 oz. -- has potential uses in everything from space sails to light-emitting displays, and artificial muscles to transparent radio antennas, says Ray H. Baughman, the University of Texas at Dallas nanotechnologist who led the project. Prototype products using the fabric, he adds, could be available in 2006. 

photograph | Photograph: FIBER: Tubes being teased into fabric 


Document BW00000020050901e1950000a


More Like This

 Article 482 *******************    



Long & Short: Lifting the Curtains on Hedge-Fund Window Dressing 

By Jesse Eisinger 
1,173 words 
7 September 2005
The Wall Street Journal
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

THERE ARE several names for it but the most common are Painting the Tape or Portfolio Window-Dressing. 

That's when a fund manager buys lots of shares in a specific company they already own, helping push the share price higher and thereby helping to dress up performance figures. Such practices have historically focused on the last day or days of the quarter, since mutual-fund managers focus intently on quarterly performance figures. 

The practice was never widespread, but was too common for comfort. Regulators have rarely done much about the curious movements of certain stocks in the final days of a quarter or a month. 

But now it appears as if strange movements are appearing at the end of the month. Why? It may be because of the proliferation of hedge funds. Many hedge-fund investors get monthly updates. A down month sets off red flags for hot-money investors and can cause an unwanted exodus of cash. 

"Hedge-fund investors have been typically much more short-term-oriented and driven more by monthly returns. It's a short-sighted way of looking at it," says Barry Colvin, the president of Tremont Capital, a "fund of funds" that also tracks hedge-fund data. 

The practice of tape-painting usually takes place in stocks with small market values that don't trade a lot of shares. The low volume of trading means a big buyer can move the share price more easily. In the old days, when portfolio managers actually talked to live traders, they might instruct them to "buy it sloppy" -- to disregard price for the purchase. 

Often -- but not always -- the share prices recede in the days following the quarter or month. A fund manager investing in a smaller stock can hang on to the stock, rather than sell right after the quarter. Also, a spurt of buying can lure followers. But eventually, the big holder in the smallish stock has to sell, and the exit isn't so pretty. So why do it? Usually investors like to buy low and sell high, but on the last day of the month, the rule becomes buy high and sell wherever or whenever. The reason is that every little bit helps to make a portfolio's monthly record as good as it can be. 

One reason that such practices aren't more widespread is that when a big fund plays around with a small stock, it probably won't have a huge impact on its overall performance. Therefore, such practices are usually the purview of smaller funds, where a big move in a smallish stock can have an impact on overall monthly or quarterly performance. 

Last Wednesday was the last day of trading in August. It had its share of striking stock charts that look like the letter L lying on its side. In other words, the stocks were trading flattish until the last hour of trading or so and then shot up on heavy volume. 

Among them: 

Medical Properties Trust, a health-care real-estate investment trust with a market value of about $430 million, was up 50 cents, or 4.8%. 

True Religion, a $340 million market cap maker of one of those brands of jeans that women actually pay 240 bucks for, was up 46 cents, or 3.1%. 

Golf Galaxy, an owner golf-supply stores with just over $200 million in market value, was up $1.25, or 6.8%. 

Nano Proprietary, a nanotechnology company with just over $250 million in market cap that is traded on the bulletin board, was up 19 cents, or 8.4%. 

Pico Holdings, which runs a water company and owns land in Nevada, and has a market cap of just over $400 million, was up $1.20, or 4.1%. 

Those were big one-day jumps, especially since all of these stocks beat the performance of the small-stock tracking index, the Russell 2000, which was up just under 2% that day. All but Medical Properties have moved higher since Aug. 31. 

It's impossible for outsiders without access to the trading records to know what happened for sure. But there is one common thread: They are all stocks that were owned recently by JLF Asset Management, a roughly $500 million hedge fund run by Jeff Feinberg, according to recent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. 

As of an Aug. 31 proxy filing with the SEC, JLF owned 6% of Medical Properties Trust. 

As of a July 22 SEC filing, Mr. Feinberg was listed as a 5.4% holder of True Religion. 

As of an Aug. 11 SEC filing, Mr. Feinberg owned 6.2% of Golf Galaxy. 

JLF owned 6.2 million shares, or about 6.2%, of Nano Proprietary as of the latest SEC filing. 

JLF had 404,000 shares, or 2.5%, of Pico Holdings as of June 30. JLF was listed as a selling shareholder in a July 14 offering document. 

I sent Mr. Feinberg an email detailing the movements in these five and 10 other companies that his funds were listed as owning as of the latest filings that had noteworthy, but less significant, moves on the last day of August. When he called me back, he told me he wouldn't comment on specific positions and trades. 

But he told me: "There's no incentive for me to do anything like you are insinuating," adding, "Almost half the companies I don't own and the vast majority we have not transacted in recently." 

I asked him about the five stocks listed above and one other, and he repeated the line above. He then ended the phone call. 

Mr. Feinberg started his hedge fund in 1999 and developed a reputation as an active trader and griller of managements. He says he has compounded annual returns since then of 22%. He says that after having taken a sabbatical for several months in 2002 to spend time with his three children, he reopened at the beginning of 2003. He was up 15% in 2003 and up more than 18% in 2004, he says. Since he was down in 2002, when he reopened, he honorably declined to take a performance fee until he got back to even, a common industry practice for an ongoing fund. 

Year-to-date, he says he is up more than 5%. In July, he was up 9%, he said. But in August things didn't go so well: His fund lost 2%, he says. It's not hard to see one reason that might be: Abercrombie & Fitch, of which JLF owned 437,100 shares as of June 30, was down 29% in the August after having issued a disappointing forecast. 

August might have been even tougher if his other positions hadn't rallied on the last day. 

--- 

Are you seeing more cases of window-dressing? Send questions and comments to longandshort@wsj.com. Select letters run most Mondays at WSJ.com/JournalLinks. 



Document J000000020050907e1970003g


More Like This

 Article 483 *******************    



Politics & Policy

Investing in Intelligence --- Spy Agencies Seek Innovation Through Venture-Capital Firm 

By Jay Solomon 
1,060 words 
12 September 2005
The Wall Street Journal
A4
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Washington -- THE FEDERAL BUREAU of Investigation and the Pentagon's Defense Intelligence Agency are beginning to invest in start-up companies, following U.S. intelligence agencies in using taxpayer money to spur development of high-technology products and services by U.S. entrepreneurs. 

The investments go through a venture-capital firm called In-Q-Tel, established by the Central Intelligence Agency in 1999 to tap into Silicon Valley and other high-tech centers. In-Q-Tel has invested $130 million alongside private investors, backing more than 80 companies developing technologies such as real-time translation software and digital mapping. 

The Army and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration are setting up similar venture-capital arms. The Army is focused on new batteries to provide mobile energy sources for operating in battlefields. NASA is looking to develop nanotechnology, robotics and more-powerful computers. 

FBI and DIA officials say they hope to match the success of the CIA, which has deployed roughly 100 new technologies through its In-Q-Tel partnership for its analysts and spies. 

The DIA, the Pentagon's principal body for gathering and analyzing human intelligence, made its first investment through In-Q-Tel in June, says a spokesman, purchasing technology from Endeca Technologies Inc., a Cambridge, Mass., firm working on computer search engines. The DIA has established an "interface center" through which it will integrate In-Q-Tel's technologies into its intelligence operations as well as other arms of the Pentagon, such as Special Operations Command. A spokesman says the DIA is particularly focusing on wireless communications, sensors and foreign-language translation. 

FBI and DIA officials say they hope joint investments with other agencies through In-Q-Tel will foster more compatibility among U.S. spy agencies. They were criticized after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks for antiquated communications and computer systems that undermined their ability to process large quantities of information. The commission investigating the attacks cited failures of information-sharing as a big reason for the success of the al Qaeda hijackers. 

"Through In-Q-Tel, the FBI has been able to review new, cutting-edge technologies that have not yet been fully developed for the commercial market," says Jack Israel, the FBI's chief technology officer. 

In all, the CIA, FBI and DIA are expected to commit about $65 million this year to In-Q-Tel, says its president, Gilman Louie, a former videogame entrepreneur and Hasbro Inc. executive. 

All of In-Q-Tel's funding comes from money appropriated by Congress to the CIA, FBI and DIA. In-Q-Tel's 64 employees are required to contribute 10% of their total compensation to a fund that invests in each company in the portfolio. The employees get a percentage of the revenue from the companies that In-Q-Tel successfully sells off, but also incur losses if they go under. No one in the intelligence community takes part in these investments. 

In-Q-Tel won't disclose how much it has made on its investments, but Mr. Louie says the firm's cumulative rate of return since making its first investments in 2000 has been 26%, better than the venture-industry average. In-Q-Tel sold its stake in Keyhole Corp., which produces geospatial mapping software, to Google Inc. in October and its stake in SRD Inc., a Las Vegas company that produces search engines and risk-analysis software, to International Business Machines Corp. in January. 

To date, for every dollar the government has invested through In-Q-Tel, private-sector players have spent about $9, the company says. In-Q-Tel executives say the FBI and DIA's involvement will spread the financial risk. 

"Each agency that wants a particular transaction will put up its own money," Mr. Louie says. "If the FBI wants a particular technology, it might try to lobby other agencies to put some of their money into play as well." 

A key element of In-Q-Tel's approach is to share the financial risk of developing technologies with the private sector while ensuring that the CIA and other spy agencies use them first, say the firm's executives and members of the intelligence community. Currently, the CIA has a development unit to work with In-Q-Tel's board and management in identifying technologies the agency needs. An In-Q-Tel team then works to ensure that the technologies are used quickly in the field. The DIA and FBI are putting similar systems in place, say In-Q-Tel officials. 

In-Q-Tel is bringing the government closer to Silicon Valley. Skip Speaks, chief executive of Rosum Corp., a Redwood City, Calif., telecommunications firm, says that for two decades he didn't do any business with the government, largely because of the red tape involved. But in late 2002, Rosum accepted venture CIA funding from In-Q-Tel to help finance technologies, including ways to track people or vehicles in areas such as valleys that traditional radio or telephony signals rarely reach. 

Rosum says its relationship with In-Q-Tel has given the company unique access to other potential government clients, unusual for a start-up. Other investors include Walt Disney Co.'s venture-capital arm, Steamboat Ventures LLC, and Motorola Inc. 

A recent In-Q-Tel success is real-time language-translation software produced by a Los Angeles technology company, Language Weaver. CIA analysts and spies use the software in Iraq and Afghanistan to translate Arabic into English. In-Q-Tel technicians use Language Weaver to translate commentary from the Arabic-language al-Jazeera television network. 

The three-year-old Language Weaver project is a "way of multiplying the effectiveness of translators, which are in rare supply," says Donald Kerr, who served as the CIA's deputy director for Science and Technology for four years -- ending last month -- and now leads the agency that runs U.S. spy satellites. 

--- 


                           Capitalizing on Security 
 
  A look at In-Q-Tel, the venture-capital firm that makes investments for 
some U.S. intelligence agencies. 
 
  -- Company: In-Q-Tel 
 
  -- Founded: 1999 
 
  -- Location: Classified 
 
  -- Employees: 64 
 
  -- Number of investments: 80, including companies researching 3-D facial 
recognition, nanotechnology and mobile biosensing systems 
 
  -- Value of investments: $130 million 
 
  -- Investors: CIA, FBI, DIA 
 
  Source: the company 
   

Document J000000020050912e19c00025


More Like This

 Article 484 *******************    


Technology

A Perpetual Crisis Machine Samsung's VIP Center is home to a uniquely paranoid culture--and that's the way the boss likes it. 

PETER LEWIS 
5,027 words 
19 September 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
58
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

The guts of a next-generation digital video camcorder are splayed on a worktable near Sun Woo Song's desk, although to a visitor's eye they might as well be the innards of a notebook computer or a digital TV. Right now they are just a few slabs of green circuitboard attached to a life-support system consisting of an oscilloscope and a power supply. Song gestures proudly at the contraption, inviting me to imagine that it eventually can be folded like origami, sutured to a loading mechanism and a camera, infused with clever software, labeled with the Samsung logo, and delivered into the eager hands of consumers in time for ... Sorry, we can't say when project code-name Rainbow will emerge from Samsung Electronics as a real product. 

Rainbow is top secret, just like the 30 or 40 other projects that will pass this year through Samsung's VIP Center for some meticulous fine-tuning or, sometimes, a wholesale reimagining. 

Even at this early, concept stage, a small crisis has emerged. Management has sent Rainbow back to the drawing board, intensifying the already palpable sense of urgency. "We needed to enhance the product design," explains Song, senior engineer and leader of the 19- strong Team Rainbow. "The prototype needed more new ideas." 

The big green sandwich of silicon and circuits has certainly come to the right place. The five-story VIP Center nestles amid the enormous factories and twin office towers that make up Samsung's industrial complex in Suwon, South Korea, a manufacturing town about an hour south of Seoul and not far from the spot where, in 1969, Samsung Electronics was founded in a Quonset hut. The VIP Center is best described as an invitation-only, round-the-clock assembly line for ideas and profits where Samsung's top researchers, engineers, and designers come to solve their grittiest problems. The ground floor houses big training rooms. Floors two through four are workrooms for the various teams. The top floor is reserved for the 42 dormitory rooms, each containing two beds, a shower, and a small desk and chair. There is a simple shared kitchen. In the basement is the fun stuff--billiards, Ping-Pong, gym, and sauna. 

I wander past a meeting room where half a dozen casually clad engineers quietly manipulate their own facets of the consumer electronics puzzle. One team member sitting at his desk stares at a small loop of metal about the size of a silver dollar nestled in his hand, as if he were Hamlet contemplating Yorick's skull. In another room, five men sit around a central conference table, two of them pointing animatedly at a wall projection: "What? The power drain is 5.2 kilovolts? Not good enough! The goal is 4.9!" Other members of Team Rainbow toil quietly in their designated workspaces, knowing they will be testing their limits of endurance soon enough. In spite of an order to add more features while making it simpler, the original schedule for a final camcorder design prototype remains fixed and absolute. 

The VIP Center is one of the reasons Samsung Electronics, once known as the maker of cheap black-and-white TVs, has become in less than a decade the world's dominant--and most profitable--consumer electronics company, knocking Sony from the top of the heap. At Samsung, speed equals success, and disaster lurks in every overlooked detail or missed deadline. According to the management philosophy laid out by vice chairman and CEO Jong-Yong Yun (everyone calls him vice chairman Yun), profits in the Digital Age are directly linked to being first to market. A delay in delivery takes a product one step closer to being a commodity, and when it comes to commodities, the low-cost Chinese manufacturers will eat your lunch noodles. Failure is not an option, especially in the VIP Center, a concrete-and-glass embodiment of Samsung's uniquely paranoid corporate culture. "Vice chairman Yun stresses that if you relax, if you become complacent, a crisis will find you," adds Kyunghan Jung, a senior manager of the VIP Center. "There is," he says, "a lot of tension here." 

The VIP Center--which stands for Value Innovation Program, not Very Important Person--is definitely a guy's kind of hangout. The hospital-drab walls are decorated mainly by flow charts, timelines of technological achievement, and above every urinal in the men's room, a picture of a jet exploding into the side of the World Trade Center in New York City. (The Korean text over the pictures warns of the importance of maintaining top security and reminds the viewer that disaster can strike out of the blue.) A roll of toilet paper on a tray of fruit juices provides a low-cost alternative to napkins. 

More than a dozen projects are underway in the VIP Center on the day of my visit, some expected to last a month, some as long as a year. I'm being allowed to tag along with two of them: the Eiger project, which has to reduce material costs on a new flatbed, multifunction printer by 30%; and Rainbow, which must trim the hundreds of steps needed to manufacture a new camcorder by 25%. 

Once through the front door and past the security guards, climbing the stairs of the building reveals door after door after closed door marked with code names: Hinan, Mosel, Porsche, Elle. The various teams closeted within could be working on a new liquid- crystal display TV or a problem with semiconductor yields or maybe just a way to eliminate one function from an air-conditioner control panel. While the objects of their attention vary widely, the team members at the VIP Center have one thing in common: Their bosses have vowed in writing--etched in metal on a plaque that hangs on the wall--to keep them in the VIP Center until they have solved their particular problems. If that means spending the night, so be it. Although team members may go home to sleep if they want to, Samsung executives acknowledge--with obvious pride--that the building is occupied 24 hours a day, seven days a week. And even if they don't sleep over, 18- to 20-hour days are not uncommon. "When people are told they have to come here, they know they have to come up with results in a very, very short time," says Song, a veteran team leader. "This is not a prison," one engineer tells me, "but it's not a volunteer job either." 

In April the managers invited the wives of Team Rainbow's researchers--of the 39 original members, only one is female--to the VIP Center to explain that their husbands were coming home late or not at all because they were working and sleeping in the dorm. 

"Our wives were complaining," recalls Jaehoon Koo, a software specialist and VIP Center veteran who moved his family to Suwon in order to be able to sleep in his own bed, if for only a few hours a night. "We called a meeting to soothe and comfort the family members, to remind them how important this project is and why it is needed for the husbands to work so hard." And why is that? "We're building the foundation for the new generation of camcorders," Koo explains. 

Doosik Joo, a father of three and a five-time VIP alumnus, has a different explanation. "People say, 'You've spent all your life there, and what have you done?'" he says. "I can say, 'I drove down costs, created more value for the customer.' Sure, maybe we work more than the normal eight hours, but because we do, the next generation may only have to work eight hours. We do it not only for our company and our families, but also for our country." 

Working and living in the VIP Center is not just geek macho. "Seventy percent to 80% of quality, cost, and delivery time is determined in the initial stages of product development," says Jung, the crisis-conscious senior manager whose business card also identifies him as a certified value specialist. He's one of the 50 or so "core members" of the VIP Center staff who work to support the teams assembled from across the company, all determined to engineer value into Samsung's next-generation products. The company's obsession with reducing complexity early in the design cycle is one reason Samsung Electronics has lower manufacturing costs, higher profit margins (an industry-leading 21% last year), quicker time to market, and, more often than not, more innovative products than its competition. 

But for Yun (pronounced yoon), nothing breeds failure quite like success. And Samsung Electronics has had a lot of successes lately. It's the world's leading maker of memory chips, flat-panel LCD displays, and color televisions, and it's battling Motorola to be the world's No. 2 maker of mobile phones, behind Nokia. Last year it earned more than $9 billion on $72 billion in sales, good by any standard but remarkable for a manufacturing company. It has twice the market capitalization of Sony, which has long served as a Samsung role model. Hardly a week goes by in which Samsung fails to announce a "world's first" or "world's biggest" or world's something- or-other product. In recent months Samsung has unveiled a seven- megapixel digital camera phone, an 82-inch LCD display, a 102-inch plasma HDTV, a phone that receives satellite television broadcasts-- the list goes on and on. 

Most telling, a humbled Sony turned to Samsung last year to help it gain a foothold in the flat-panel TV market, and earlier this summer the British market-research firm Interbrand calculated that Samsung's global brand value--defined as the present value of the brand's future earnings--had actually passed Sony's for the first time. The reversal can be attributed in part to a decline in Sony's fortunes, but since Yun restructured the business in 1997, no other global company's brand equity has grown faster. 

Marketing and design are critical factors in Samsung's rise, of course, but the bedrock of Samsung's growing global presence, and the reason it is likely to stay No. 1 even if rivals steal a march from time to time, is the sheer depth and scale of its technical research. No other tech company--not Intel, not Microsoft, not Sony- -spends a higher percentage of revenue on R&D than Samsung does: 8.3% last year, or $4.6 billion, rising to more than 9% this year. (The company has nearly 27,000 researchers, out of a total workforce of 113,600, including some 2,400 Ph.D.s and 8,600 with master's degrees, working in 17 research centers around the globe.) And while Asian competitors cut capital expenditures and R&D spending to weather the Asian financial crisis of 1997, Samsung boosted its already high investment in new technologies. Those investments put it in position to dominate today's hot markets--LCD TVs, multimedia mobile phones, and memory chips. Even if you don't own a Samsung- branded product, there's probably a bit of Samsung in whatever device you do own: Apple iPods, Dell computers, Microsoft Xboxes, Nokia phones, Sony PlayStation Portables--name your favorite gadget. 

For Yun, a scholarly 61-year-old engineer who looks to history and philosophy books for inspiration, this growing list of No. 1's are so many more reasons not to celebrate. In his monthly speeches to employees he invariably warns that Samsung is in a crisis every bit as severe as the one that nearly destroyed the company in 1997. Back then, memory chips provided 50% of the profits of Samsung Electronics and 35% of the total revenue of Samsung Group, the family-owned chaebol, or conglomerate, of which Samsung Electronics is the largest division. But in 1996 the memory-chip business began to implode as supply outstripped demand. Samsung Electronics had taken on prodigious debt to expand in chips, and as prices fell, the company reeled. 

Today, says Yun, "we stand at the crossroads to becoming a world leader or a major failure." There are, in fact, unsettling similarities to the late-1990s crisis. Now, as then, a record year for profits presaged a collapse in prices for almost all of Samsung's key products; profits and market growth in mobile phones are shrinking, and the 15% rise of Korea's won against foreign currencies in the past year has withered profit margins for a company that gets 80% of its revenue from exports. First-quarter profits this year were down 52%, followed by a 46% decline in the second quarter. On top of that, the South Korean economy is stagnant, labor unrest is on the rise, and Samsung Group executives are mired in a scandal involving slush-fund payments to politicians. There are even public protests against Samsung's overwhelming dominance of the Korean economy. Looming over all is China, simultaneously Samsung's biggest potential market--and competitive threat. Yun's paranoia is not some managerial affectation. 

To understand Samsung's hunger for success, it's necessary to understand South Korea. Brutalized by the Japanese military occupation during the first half of the 20th century and almost completely destroyed in the 1950s war that divided the country, South Korea had one of the world's poorest economies in the 1960s and lacked the industrial infrastructure, particularly the manufacturing and electronics expertise, that Japan and other Asian countries developed after World War II. When the three-year-old Samsung Electronics Co. began selling black-and-white TVs in Korea in 1972, Sony was already a brand globally admired for its high- quality transistor radios, tape players, and Trinitron color TVs. 

By 1995, Samsung--the name means "three stars" in Korean--was making memory chips and other components that helped power the high- tech products of brand-name Japanese and American companies. Its own Samsung-branded consumer-electronics business focused on making commodity products cheaply. That year, celebrating the group's growing success, Kun-Hee Lee, the chairman and son of the Samsung Group's founder, gave Samsung mobile phones to friends and key workers. Within days, however, he was receiving complaints that the phones were defective. Embarrassed, he ordered the entire inventory from the Gumi factory that had built the phones--$50 million worth-- to be piled in a giant heap in the factory's courtyard. Under banners proclaiming that Samsung would from then on be known as a maker of quality goods, Lee, his top managers, and 2,000 employees watched as workers smashed 150,000 wireless handsets, cordless phones, and fax machines with hammers and threw the pieces into a bonfire. "A defect is a cancer," Lee proclaimed. It marked the beginning of the company's transformation into a respected global brand. 

As semiconductor prices plunged in 1996, Lee realized that Samsung Electronics would have to diversify beyond the cyclical memory-chip business. So in December 1996 he tapped Jong-Yong Yun as president and CEO and exhorted him, "Change everything except your spouse and children." 

Yun had barely begun to formulate a strategy when the 1997 Asian meltdown hit. Spooked Western investors staged the equivalent of a run on Asian stocks, currencies, and assets, wreaking havoc in markets across Asia and driving Samsung to the brink of bankruptcy. Yun acted quickly and boldly. He dumped dozens of non-core businesses, fired nearly one-third of the workforce--shocking in the Korean chaebol culture of lifetime employment--and bet the company on the emerging world of digital technologies. "Sometimes," says Yun, who's fond of speaking in Confucian-esque aphorisms, "the lizard has to sacrifice its tail to survive." 

This period saw him crystallize what he calls his "sincere management" philosophy: Cut costs for short-term competitiveness. Spend on research in core technologies for long-term competitiveness. Don't enter new markets or product lines unless there's a real chance to become No. 1. Ruthlessly cut any business that does not earn the company a growing profit. Be the first to get innovative products to market. Constantly refine supply-chain and decision management. Adapt quickly. Put quality first. 

Yun decided that Samsung had to control its own destiny and not just copy others if it was to transform itself into a 21st-century power. Dissecting the iconic products of the emerging Digital Age-- computers, cellphones, CD players, and the like--Yun identified core technologies common to them all: semiconductors, large-area LCDs, display drivers and chip sets, and mobile telephony. This focus gave the company a big advantage. Although Sony and other rivals had a huge head start in consumer electronics, that lead was based in the analog world. The digital world required new skills and technologies, Yun realized, and it was suddenly a level playing field. (It wouldn't be for long.) 

About the same time, the South Korean government began a concerted effort to propel the nation to the cutting edge of information technologies, building a national broadband Internet network that today is unmatched in the world. The growing digital infrastructure gave Samsung a vast, real-world laboratory for testing new products and services. And into this churning environment, the VIP Center was born. 

Inside the VIP Center the day never begins, because it never really ends. And although weekends are officially encouraged, all the team members know that as deadlines approach, Saturdays and Sundays--and time with their families--can evaporate. "The calendar on the wall here at VIP Center says Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Friday, Friday," Team Rainbow's Jaehoon Koo jokes. 

"Currently for the design team it is a very busy time," Koo says, which is a VIP euphemism for very little sleep. "Next it will be the circuit team. Then the software team." And software time means the 35-year-old Koo may not be going home for a while. Although his rule is to go home at night--even if it's 4 A.M. and he has to be back at dawn--at crunch time the dorm rooms are "necessary for the success of the program. In the VIP Center it's very easy to work, very good for the early stages of a project," he says. There are no distracting phone calls, no messy administrative tasks. All the critical team members are within shouting distance, and with everyone working on the same project in the same room, arranging meetings on short notice is a snap. The VIP Center support team is always available to lend a computer-aided engineering specialist, a modular-design expert, mechanical engineers, and quality specialists. 

The critical nature of teamwork becomes evident late one morning as the Rainbow team leader, Sun Woo Song, is focused on the mother of all spreadsheets, the one he maintains with hundreds of color- coded mini-deadlines and links showing how one facet of the project is connected to another. He's found a bottleneck: key coding. The buttons on the camcorder can't be programmed until the software is complete. But technically it's doable; it's mainly a juggling act with clocks and calendars. 

As he struggles with the schedule, I pop in on Project Eiger; it's winding down its stint in the VIP Center and has fewer than ten members at the moment. The prototype on the worktable is actually recognizable as an all-in-one flatbed printer, scanner, and copier. I joke through my translator that it must have been zapped with Samsung's ultra-top-secret shrinking ray gun. These guys become visibly nervous at the mention of the phrase "ultra-top-secret shrinking ray gun," as if I've discovered a trade secret. Indeed, secrets at the VIP Center are so guarded that one engineer asks me not to write "new laser printer" or "next-generation camcorder." "It could cause big damage to our competitive nature," he says. 

The tightly wound engineer leaves, perhaps to stare at the picture of the plane taking down Tower Two, and I get to talk with Byung Sun Ahn, who has logged more hours in the VIP Center than almost anyone else. "I like to think of the VIP Center as a smaller version of NASA," says Ahn, 45, the principal engineer and project manager for the Eiger team. He worked on one of the first VIP projects back in 1998 and 1999 and has led several teams. "You know, everyone in the same room, looking up at the same big screen. The place is designed for smooth communications and fast decision- making." 

"In the U.S., everyone has their own small cubicle, their own space," Ahn continues. "Here we each have our own desks around the walls, but there's a big central table. You can see from people's expressions how they're doing. We're able to communicate efficiently in real time. When we gather around the table, we're like NASA, all specialists working together and looking at the same big screen." 

The specialists come not only from Ahn's digital printing division, but also from the core VIP Center staff. The sponsoring group--digital video in the case of Rainbow, digital printing for Eiger--pays all the development cost, while the VIP Center provides the dorm facilities, the food, and the training, a key part of the VIP Center experience. That takes me downstairs to the TRIZ room. 

TRIZ is a Russian acronym for Theory of Inventive Problem Solving. It's a curious throwback from the Stalin-era Soviet Union that has proven unexpectedly effective in the hands of Samsung's single-minded capitalists. Some 60 years ago a Russian patent clerk, Genrich Altshuller, who had studied thousands of submissions, decided that there were patterns of innovation common to the evolution of scientific and technical advances, and that inventiveness could be taught just like, say, reading or arithmetic. He developed the TRIZ method, which uses some 200 different exercises to help develop creative problem solving and is based on the concept of resolving contradictions. It is so popular among Samsung product designers that TRIZ team leader, Jun-Young Lee, is developing a multimedia training tool to reach thousands of engineers instead of the couple of hundred or so who can schedule personal training sessions at the VIP Center. His team includes two Russians, Eduard Kurgi and Yury Danilovskiy, who are specialists in the technique. 

"When something gets better, it can also get worse," Jung, the VIP Center senior manager, explains. Chairman of the Samsung Electronics Fishing Club, the affable Jung turns to angling for an example. "The fishing line has to be thin enough so the fish doesn't notice it," he starts. "But it also has to be strong enough so it doesn't break when you catch the fish. In that case, you make the fishing line flat, so it appears thin, while the flatness gives it strength." 

Recognizing a fellow geek, I try to make a connection. His TRIZ explanation is exactly the premise for the thin ribbon of nanoparticles envisioned for a proposed space elevator that would lift small payloads into orbit, I say. 

"Yes, fishing is very scientific," Jung agrees. 

In any event, TRIZ is by no means unique to Samsung; hundreds of companies--including competitors like Philips, LG, and Motorola-- use it too. At the VIP Center, however, the goal is to train every engineer and researcher in the company in TRIZ think. It's employed to evaluate such things as whether a button can be removed from, say, a new camcorder. Removing the button can save lots of money in manufacturing costs, but only if the loss of function is acceptable to the consumer, and only if it takes the camcorder design one step closer to perfection. TRIZ has been useful in increasing the yield of semiconductor factories, designing new motors for washing machines and vacuum cleaners, and increasing the viewing angle of LCD TVs. Collaborating with TRIZ specialists, engineers who are accustomed to attacking technical problems in the traditional linear fashion often come up with breakthroughs. 

"We put ideas on the table, they put ideas on the table, and we go from there," says Lee, the TRIZ specialist. "If it's a good idea, we patent it." And, since the VIP Center was created in the late 1990s, Samsung's growth in good ideas, measured in patents, has risen faster than any of its competitors--1,600 last year. 

For all his successes, there's one thing missing from Yun's executive bio: a lovable, iconic product on the level of Apple's iPod or Sony's Trinitron. Despite the company's advanced technology, increasingly innovative designs, and TRIZ, it's hard for Americans to think of a single product that's closely identified with the Samsung brand. And to stay atop the consumer-electronics business, Samsung needs not only flawless execution but also a blockbuster-- one that is sexier than an Internet- enabled refrigerator. Maybe it will be an advanced mobile phone, or a portable MP3 music player. Yun says that by the end of next year Samsung will displace Apple's iPod from its leadership position. In the meantime Yun has his current crisis to get through, especially dealing with the beating Samsung is taking in its main businesses of memory chips and LCD panels. 

Given how quickly Samsung learns and the sheer force of its R&D, the company looks as if it has built the foundation to lead markets for the indefinite future. Today Samsung Electronics ranks No. 1 in the world in eight product categories, including flash memory chips, computer monitors, big LCD screens, and CDMA mobile phones. Yun's goal is to double the No. 1 rankings in three years and triple them in five years. The company's seventh-generation LCD factory is producing high-definition screens the size of a king-size bed. The Korean won is strengthening against the dollar, Samsung is buying back $2 billion of its own stock, and the lights still burn all night at the VIP Center. 

In other words, vice chairman Yun sees potential disaster just around the corner. He acknowledges that he rarely misses a chance to remind even his top executives of the perils that, he says, could sink Samsung Electronics at any turn, even in its finest hour, even though he's rung the crisis bell 1,000 times before. "You love your wife, but you still have to tell her that you love her every day," he says. 

Pupil and Mentor 

Samsung has long modeled itself on Sony, which in 1969 was already a global brand while Samsung was a startup in a Quonset hut. 

Revenue 2004 

SAMSUNG $71.6 billion 

SONY $66.6 billion* 

Year-over-year change 

SAMSUNG +31.5% 

SONY +0.4% 

Profits 2004 

SAMSUNG $9.4 billion 

SONY $1.5 billion* 

Employees 

SAMSUNG 113,600 

SONY 151,400 

State-of-the-art products 

SAMSUNG Flat-panel TVs 

Cellphones 

Memory chips 

SONY 

Electronic games 

Robotic dog 

Household-name products 

SAMSUNG None 

SONY Trinitron TV 

Walkman 

PlayStation 

* Fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 

FORTUNE TABLE 

"You don't predict the future and then wait. You create the future."- -Vice Chairman Yun"We cannot live without change. The race for survival in this world is not to the strongest, but to the most adaptive." --Vice Chairman Yun"The biggest barrier to manage-ment innovation is the ego--a self that never changes." --Vice Chairman Yun"Quality is the conscience of a company. It is the reason for the company's existence." --Vice Chairman Yun 

See also related article on page 78 of same issue. 

PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL O'NEILL THAT MEANS YUN Vice chairman Jong-Yong Yun exhorts his troops to guard against catastrophe. Below: Team Rainbow's Koo, Shin, and Song ponder camcorder design in the VIP Center. PHOTO: KI HO PARK --KISTONE [See caption above.] PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY KI HO PARK--KISTONE LOCKDOWN A project team at the VIP Center huddles to fix things before they break. ILLUSTRATION: ART FROM SEPTEMBER 1960 FORTUNE COVER BY WATER ALLNER PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY KI HO PARK--KISTONE FLOWERING R&D Researchers at a lab in Suwon test a five-foot-wide plasma display. PHOTO The VIP Center's Greatest Hits I The SGH T-100 wireless phone has racked up sales of more than ten million units. PHOTO Greatest Hits II The design of the SF 330 multipurpose color inkjet printer, introduced in 2001, has withstood the test of time. PHOTO Greatest Hits III The 40-inch LCD TV represented a breakthrough in size and wide-angle viewing. THREE PHOTOS: PHOTOGRAPH BY KI HO PARK--KISTONE TRIZ = MAGIC Yury Danilovskiy teaches Samsung employees the creative arts of TRIZ, a decades- old Russian method to think inventively. PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY KI HO PARK--KISTONE MAKE 'EM SWEAT Shin, Koo, Ahn, Joo, and Song enjoy themselves in the VIP Center's sauna--the only one on campus that can be used during business hours. PHOTO Greatest Hits IV The SPH-E3200 digital camera phone dispensed with an aerial antenna. PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY KI HO PARK--KISTONE HOME SWEET CELL Shin and Koo in their dorm room--austere by American standards, though slightly better than a motel, says one VIP regular PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY KI HO PARK--KISTONE SAY CHEESE A young couple in Seoul's COEX Mall test Samsung's latest hand phone, which incorporates an MP3 player and a videocamera. PHOTO See next story for the engineering and design wizardry that went into Samsung's latest phone. PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPH BY KI HO PARK--KISTONE WORRIER-IN- CHIEF Samsung is No.1 in eight product areas; Yun wants to triple that. 


Document FORTU00020050907e19j00009


More Like This

 Article 485 *******************    


Features/The Executive

The Bionic Manager Tough, tireless, coolly rational, Jeff Immelt is remaking GE. His team is with him, but his strategy isn't working where it counts most--in the stock. 

GEOFFREY COLVINWith Adam Lashinsky in San Francisco FEEDBACK gcolvin@fortunemail.com 
4,146 words 
19 September 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
88
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

If you could build a CEO to specs, how would you do it? As a platform, you'd engineer someone with machine-like stamina--someone who could work 100 hours a week for 24 years with no apparent ill effects. You'd add intelligence enough to excel at the nation's best schools, vision enough to peer into the future and recognize the world's most promising business opportunities. You'd make him a discerning judge of talent, and you'd make him tough--able to push aside his own handpicked managers if they didn't deliver. He would budget his time with iron discipline: up at 5:30 daily for a cardio workout while reading the papers and watching CNBC, allocating 30% of his workweek to people evaluation, 30% to operations, 30% to growth initiatives, and 10% to governance, investor communications, and board communications. 

And since you could do whatever you want, you might as well engineer all of those extraordinary elements into a disarming package: tall (6-foot-4), good-looking, genial, relaxed, approachable. 

Jeff Immelt is that wish-list CEO. The only thing missing is wish- list results. General Electric's CEO--the alpha male of the executive class, just ninth in a line of succession that began with Thomas Edison--is trying to solve one of the biggest problems any CEO now faces by pulling off one of the largest transformations any CEO has tried in years. (For a boss in an even tougher bind, see "Can One Man Save GM?") To get GE's terribly performing stock back on track, Immelt has to make this mammoth outfit grow faster. To do that he has to answer the largest questions shaping the world economy--which countries, which industries will grow fastest and biggest? And he has to get 320,000 employees--teammates, he always calls them--to follow his lead. Whether he succeeds or fails will influence the management of corporations worldwide and determine the future of the most widely owned company on the planet. Millions of people are betting hundreds of billions of dollars on his success. 

Yet the guy is a mystery. Ask intimates what's most important about him, and you get a variant of the same answer: "He is exactly the person who you think he is when you meet him," says John Rice, whom Immelt recently made a GE vice chairman. Warren Buffett, a major fan, says, "He doesn't feel he has to dazzle anybody this month or this week." Fittingly, Immelt says of himself, calmly, "I'm direct and I'm truthful." 

The lack of pretension or even tension is what everybody notices, but it leads you seriously astray in understanding the man, the way he works, and whether he's up to his considerable challenge. You might think, for example, that Immelt is easy to work for--not especially demanding. That's a mistake. He is brutally demanding, even by GE standards. He has repeatedly done something most CEOs find unbearably painful: taken executives out of high-level jobs he had put them into, and quickly. He promoted Yoshiaki Fujimori to head GE Plastics but less than two years later moved him out. He made longtime GE executive Gary Rogers a vice chairman--but in 2003 Rogers stepped down to be a "senior advisor" to the company until his retirement a year later. Says Jack Welch, who until now has not commented publicly on his successor: "He's a lot tougher than you might think, but it's beneath his affable manner. That's a combination that works." 

The contrast between Immelt and Welch is striking but misleading. It's true they couldn't appear more different: The Big Easy vs. Mr. Tightly Wound. But Welch could just as enthusiastically hug a manager as chew him out, while Immelt appears to have ice water in his veins. He may well be tougher than the man once famed as one of America's toughest bosses. As Welch himself says, "At times I might get too emotional. He doesn't." 

Immelt's ease could tempt you to infer that success has been a breeze--that maybe he doesn't apply himself terribly hard. That too would be wrong. FORTUNE 500 CEOs are an extraordinarily hard- working group, yet even in that elite universe Immelt qualifies as a hero of capitalist labor. Says his brother, Steve: "He works pretty hard at making it look easy. When we were kids he'd sneak away--to study." That was when they were growing up in Cincinnati, where their father was a 38-year GE employee, a middle manager in the aircraft-engine business. Even in high school, Jeff was busy-- football, basketball, baseball, great grades. Today, says Steve, "it looks easy because he's working his butt off in a way you don't see." 

Immelt, 49, says he's been working 100 hours a week for 24 years. That does not take him back to his 1978 graduation from Dartmouth, where he was football team captain (as offensive tackle) and a fraternity president who liked to party. Nor does it go as far back as his two-year stint marketing Duncan Hines brownie mix at Procter & Gamble, where he sat next to Steve Ballmer, now CEO of Microsoft. The future chiefs of the world's two most valuable companies played paper-wad basketball, "were incorrigible," says Immelt with a laugh, and "were never going to be employees of the month." The 24 years go back to his time at Harvard Business School, which Immelt says he approached like a job. The most valuable thing he learned there? "There are 24 hours in a day, and you can use all of them." 

Most hard-charging types have put in a 100-hour week or two. But month after month, year after year--is that even possible? Let's do the math. If you worked from 7 A.M. to 9 P.M. seven days a week, you'd still be two hours short of 100 hours. If Immelt has been working that hard for 24 years, then he has already done 60 years' worth of 40-hour weeks. Around GE they say he has grown noticeably thinner and grayer since becoming CEO. Maybe the wonder is that it didn't happen sooner. 

These days, after his early exercise routine, he heads to the office a few exits up the Merritt Parkway in Connecticut. He regularly reviews his calendar to check that he's allocating his time properly--evaluations, operations, growth, governance, communication. "I've always been extremely disciplined," he says. The day generally ends with a dinner for customers or employees. That's when he's at home. He spends about 60% of his time on the road, where the hours are at least as bad. Here he is on a recent swing through San Francisco: The first meeting is with institutional investors at 7 A.M. Then he addresses some 200 retail investors at 8:30, standing comfortably for 25 minutes with his left hand in his pocket and his right hand holding his PowerPoint remote; after his talk, he answers questions for an hour. Then it's more institutional investors, followed by GE salespeople in Burlingame, a presentation to customers, and finally a big reception for customers and top salespeople. He seems as energetic at the end of the day as at the beginning. He had run virtually the same routine in Los Angeles the day before. (Yes, his wife, Andrea, knew what she was getting into-- they met when both worked at GE Plastics. Their only child, Sarah, heads off to Boston College this fall, but unlike most empty- nesters, Immelt won't wonder what to do with the extra time.) "You have to have real stamina," he says. 

The truth is that an unflinchingly tough, remarkably hard- working boss is what GE badly needs. The company faces a problem-- lousy stock performance--that sounds commonplace but in this case decidedly isn't. What's different at GE, making Immelt's situation unique and significant, is that the trouble and its solution are on a scale that most CEOs never contemplate. The size of the problem: Since Immelt was handed the keys on Sept. 7, 2001, GE stock is down 15% while the major market indexes are up 7% to 11%. That percentage gap is bad news but too abstract to convey the problem's magnitude. Think of it in dollars: If the stock had merely achieved mediocrity, matching the S&P 500 since Immelt's arrival, GE would be worth over $100 billion more than it is. For perspective, there are not 25 companies in America with a total market cap of $100 billion. 

Now start thinking about a solution, and again Immelt must plot on a massive scale. To raise GE's stock price by $1, he must produce about $650 million of new, after-tax profits that would continue every year. Again, for perspective: At 300 of the FORTUNE 500 companies last year, total profits didn't reach $650 million. But GE must add that much just to raise the share price by a buck--and the shares are about $6 below where they were when Immelt took over. The fix: Immelt must find opportunities with global scale, since they're the only ones big enough to make a difference for GE. And he must think long term: As with Welch, the board expects him to be a 20- year CEO, and he knows that, barring disaster, he has 16 more years in the job. 

Those perspectives lead him to large thoughts on the world's future. Developing economies will grow faster than developed ones, and Immelt believes their need for basic products and services-- water, energy, transportation, health care, financing--will grow faster than their economies. For example, GE figures nearly half the world's people will soon be water-stressed--unable to get the clean water they need. That's a huge long-term opportunity, as are those other industries, so Immelt is making major investments in all of them. 

Immelt doesn't worry about what could go wrong in the world as much as he worries about how to position GE for whatever happens. Thus, $65 oil is a problem for his plastics business because it's the main raw material, but it's an opportunity for jet engines, locomotives, and power systems because if GE can make those products more energy efficient, customers will love them. He's confident about most of the trends he's betting on, but he cites two overarching uncertainties--two things "that are going to be determined while I'm in this job that are bigger than GE. One is where health care goes in this country and on a global basis. That's going to be played out in the next ten or 15 years." How will the developed world pay for the health care of its rapidly aging population, and how will the developing world meet its people's fast- rising health-care expectations? The other major uncertainty is "the future of the U.S. as a manufacturing nation--that's going to be played out not in the next 50 or 100 years, but in the next ten or 15 years." 

In line with his big-picture expectations, Immelt is recasting GE broadly and deeply. The most fundamental step is changing his portfolio of businesses. Many of his acquisitions have been individually small--a wind-energy business from the defunct Enron, Ionics in water purification--but Immelt is buying the opportunity for future growth. A few buys were quite large, notably Universal, the movie studio and theme-park business, which he combined with NBC. His biggest acquisition was Amersham, a British health-care outfit that he bought for $9.5 billion and combined with the GE unit that makes CT scanners and MRI machines. Those were his portfolio additions. His major divestitures were in GE's insurance business, which wasn't producing the returns on capital he wanted. So he sold parts of it (including one piece to Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway) and spun off other parts last year. 

Today Immelt pretty much has the business portfolio he wants. That's the good news. The bad news is that he spent $60 billion on it--new capital invested in the business on which a return must be earned. Thus we reach another critical part of Immelt's strategy, the great growth push. Says Immelt: "We don't buy growth, we grow what we buy," and growing what he's bought is now his overwhelming imperative. 

One way he's going after that goal: publicly reviving GE's scientific research labs, bestowing upon them vastly increased dollars and prestige. Immelt figures technology innovation is a key to growth for two reasons. First, virtually every product and service in today's markets is in danger of being commoditized. If GE scientists are on the leading edge of research into, say, nanotubes, as they are, then GE has a fair chance of creating products the competition can't match, at least for a while. Second, innovative products create the best opportunities for services, which are where GE's manufacturing busi- nesses earn their real money. For example, GE makes no money selling jet engines, but it makes a ton of money servicing and upgrading those engines over their 40-year lives. "The most valuable services in the world start with R&D and manufacturing," Immelt says. "Jet engines, gas turbines, MR scanners- -you don't get any of that service revenue without the technology investment." That's why he's casting GE as a tech company, an identity it hasn't had in decades. 

Fast growth is what drives Immelt's interest in developing economies. The opportunities are huge for many GE businesses. For example, the U.S. has one commercial aircraft for every 45,000 people, but China has only one per 1.6 million people, and India one per six million; as these economies develop, their demand for jet engines will be vast. They will need electric-generating capacity on an enormous scale. They will be improving the quality of their water and their health care, and doing it for billions of people. Their consumers and businesses will need financial services. 

That's heady stuff, but Immelt is thinking much bigger. He realizes that while other companies can compete in any of those businesses, only GE can compete in all of them, and they all involve purchases that are government-made or government-approved. So GE's customers will increasingly be nations with which the company will be, literally, partners in economic growth. You need electricity? We can provide all the equipment. Don't forget you'll also need locomotives to haul more coal from the ports; we can sell you those. Your new electricity will be powering new factories with a tremendous demand for clean water, which we can make sure you get. You'll need bigger airlines to handle all that commerce--we can sell you the jet engines and, for that matter, lease you the airplanes. And of course you can finance everything through us. 

The vision is grand but apparently realistic. Revenues from the developing world were up 37% last year, to $21 billion. Immelt says the company has won 70% of China's gas turbine orders over the past two years, and it has won a commitment for 80 locomotives plus control equipment. In Qatar, says Immelt, GE is getting a big chunk of a major pipeline project, plus a $2 billion order from Qatar Airways, plus major water-desalination projects, plus extensive service and training contracts; the target is $10 billion of revenue by 2010. Nicholas Heymann of Prudential Securities, the top-ranked GE analyst, figures 40% of GE's total revenue growth over the next five years will come from developing countries. 

Immelt's growth strategy has another feature that says a lot about him. He decided to make GE's marketing as great as its vaunted finance and human resources operations. "At first no one knew what he was talking about," says vice chairman Dave Calhoun. It's not that GE hated customers; it just wasn't customer-centric. "Marketing had become a lost function during the 1990s," says Immelt, so restoring it was a fat opportunity to make GE more competitive. To him it's the basis of an important change in the GE culture, making it more externally focused, measuring GE's success by customers' success. If it works, the change will be significant. As he puts it, "The purpose of this generation of GE leaders is to make the company as good externally and commercially as it has always been operationally and financially." 

Immelt is committed to his strategy. Can he execute it? That's rarely a problem at GE, where the disciplines of execution are at the heart of the culture. The biggest challenge through the rough patch of the past few years has been keeping and motivating the very best GE managers. Immelt was pumping up 625 of them this past January at an annual rite that brings them to Boca Raton each year. As usual, he opened with pointed jokes (one of his Top Ten Reasons 2005 Will Be a Great Year for GE: "We've replaced Father of the Pride with a test pattern," a jab at one of NBC's many flops). Then, to the team on whom he relies to carry his strategy, he put up a slide with a surprising tone: "If you didn't leave the last three years, you would be crazy to leave now!" The slide got a big laugh, as intended, because like all good laugh lines, it contained truth. Imploring people to stay? At GE? Yes, when those hard-charging managers are holding loads of underwater stock options. 

But step back and look at the very big GE picture --Immelt's character, methods, strategy, and recent results--and you have to conclude the man is equal to his plan. He is changing what he wants to change. And the plan does make sense. In fact, you don't find many doubters; the closest you come are those who say it isn't paying off yet. Even that may be changing. Earnings per share in the past three quarters grew 13%, 19%, and 22%, a huge improvement over the recent past and well ahead of his goal. If he can keep growth anywhere near that, GE's multiple will improve and the stock will do what it's supposed to. 

In any case, expect Immelt to just keep doing what he's doing. "He's a marathon runner," says Ram Charan, a consultant who has worked for Immelt and many other CEOs. He notes the Street was none too kind to Welch when he was reordering GE in his first few years as chief. Warren Buffett says, "Over the long run, which he has, the stock will behave itself." Buffett actually expects far more than that from Immelt: "He is likely to be the most respected spokesman for American business during the time of his tenure." 

A world that got to know Welch very well is taking a while to figure out Immelt, who seems strikingly different from his predecessor but turns out to be a lot like him. Immelt's apparent serenity masks rigor, toughness, and a white-hot desire to win. He's quietly confident in what he's doing, but he won't rest--he can't-- until he has proven that his deep redirection of one of the world's great companies is actually working. And of course he won't rest even then. 

His easy manner is misleading: Immelt is brutally demanding, even by GE standards. 

How hard does he work? Immelt has already done 

60 years' worth of 40-hour weeks. 

If GE stock had merely matched the S&P, the company would be worth $100 billion more. 

Welch on his successor's unflappable toughness: "At times I might get too emotional. He doesn't." 

Buffett says, "Over the long run, which he has, the stock will behave itself." 

If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Oslo 

Immelt says he works 100 hours a week, and this sample of his schedule bears him out. It also illustrates some of his priorities: making GE more global, building its growth businesses, spending time with customers and investors. 

THREE DAYS OF JEFF IMMELT'S EMEA TRIP 

Sunday - June 26, 2005 

08:14 A.M. Ar. Milan 

10:00 A.M. EMEA regional session C 

1:00 P.M. Controllership update 

2:00 P.M. Advanced Materials business review 

3:30 P.M. Break 

4:00 P.M. Equipment Services business review 

4:45 P.M. Consumer & Industrial business review 

6:30 P.M. Energy 2015 reception 

7:30 P.M. Energy 2015 dinner (customer event) -- Host: John Rice 

Monday - June 27, 2005 

08:15am Energy 2015 event 

Opening Remarks -- JRI 

10:00 A.M. Lv. Milan Malpensa -- 10:47 A.M. Ar. Geneva 

11:30 P.M. Private Meeting with investment company 

12:45 P.M. Investor Relations Group presentation followed by buffet lunch 

2:30 P.M. Private meeting with investment company 

4:00 P.M. Lv. Geneva -- 5:08 P.M. Ar. Frankfurt 

5:45 P.M. Investor-relations meeting / reception 

8:00 P.M. Lv. Frankfurt -- 8:52 P.M. Ar. Munich 

8:52 P.M. Transfer from airport to hotel 

Tuesday - June 28, 2005 

Speech to newly promoted GE executives 

08:45 A.M. Lv. Munich -- 10:37 A.M. Ar. Farsund Lista 

Welcome by local management and guests 

12:00 P.M. Tour of existing & new plant 

12:15 P.M. Opening of GE Healthcare research center/factory 

ceremony begins 

2:00 P.M. Lv. Lista -- 3:01 P.M. Ar. Gardermoen, Oslo 

2:56P.M. Transfer from airport to Konserthus (concert hall), Oslo 

4:00 P.M. JRI to welcome all employees in the large concert hall 

5:00 P.M. 2 media interviews JRI 

6:00 P.M. GE Day ceremony begins at concert hall 

7:15 P.M. Meeting with customer 

9:00 P.M. Lv. Gardermoen, Oslo -- 11:10 P.M. Ar. Munich 

EMEA--Europe, Middle East, Africa--a regional unit in the GE organization that furnishes about a quarter of the company's revenue. 

Session C is the heart of GE's people evaluation and leadership- development process. That process is arguably GE's core competency. 

The Advanced Materials business makes plastics, ceramics, and silicon- and quartz-based products. Immelt counts on this business to generate cash for investment in other businesses. 

Energy 2015 is a series of conferences GE holds with customers, regulators, and others on meeting future energy demands efficiently and cleanly. Establishing GE as eco-friendly is critical in Europe. 

Life in the era of global capital markets: Immelt devotes most of the day to meetings with Swiss investors and potential investors, and to meetings with GE's investor-relations managers. 

This facility develops and makes substances that are injected into people for diagnostic scanning. 

GE Day markets the whole company to invited customers, government officials, and media. Presentations describe GE activities in the Nordic region. 

PHOTO: PREVIOUS PAGE: ART FROM OCTOBER 1939 FORTUNE COVER BY ANTONIO PETRUCCELLI PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY NINA BERMAN--REDUX CROWD PLEASER "I'm direct and I'm truthful." Immelt works a customer reception at the end of a marathon day in San Francisco. PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY NINA BERMAN--REDUX THE MANTRA "We don't buy growth," Immelt often says. "We grow what we buy." PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: FORTUNE GRAPHIC / PHOTODISC (DAY PLANNER) MAP Three Days, Seven Stops PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY NINA BERMAN--REDUX BACK TO BASICS Personally persuasive, Immelt aims to revive marketing at GE. It "had become a lost function." PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY NINA BERMAN--REDUX NEW PERSPECTIVE Welch beat a great stock market; Immelt trails a lousy one. CHART: JAMES LEYNSE--CORBIS / FORTUNE CHART The Problem He Has to Solve PHOTO: PHOTOGRAPHS BY NINA BERMAN--REDUX LOOKING AHEAD "The future of the U.S. as a manufacturing nation--that's going to be played out ... in the next ten or 15 years." PHOTO: GREG MILLER ON THE ROAD AGAIN GE is surprisingly un-global. Immelt seeks major growth abroad. "You have to have real stamina," he says. 


Document FORTU00020050907e19j0000a


More Like This

 Article 486 *******************    


How The World Will Work

Fast-Forward to the Future Through 75 tumultuous years, this magazine has held on to a fundamental optimism about tomorrow. Of course there are problems. But here's to all the promise. 

CAIT MURPHYDavid Stires; David Kirkpatrick; David Stipp 
3,952 words 
19 September 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
271
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

THE END OF CANCER. FREEDOM from the tyranny of oil. A World Series for the Cubs. None of that is impossible. In preparing this survey, FORTUNE canvassed numerous scientists and other respect- ed thinkers. Broad themes emerged: By 2080 the world's population will have peaked, we will be dealing with climate change, and microbes, not microchips, will be the primary vehicles of innovation. 

To try to make sense of the future they described, we applied something we know works: human ingenuity. True, the species has done some terrible things. But resilience and intelligence will help it muddle through. We also believe that the human character will remain unchanged. People will always value hanging out with others, eating pizza, and exploring new things. The eternal questions--love, death, and why there is nothing decent to watch (on 20,000-plus channels!)- -will endure. 

Of course, we could be wrong. If so, drop us a line and tell us-- in 2080. 

The Postmodern Body 

The next 75 years will make the pace of 20th-century medical advances look glacial. Drugs now in labs are already giving glimpses of a future in which life expectancy will approach 100 and we will have godlike powers to enhance our bodies and our minds. 

Brain 

? Drugs that restore or strengthen memory can be bought over the counter. More old people can stay independent, education levels rise as teachers no longer have to spend time reviewing what was forgotten over vacation, and poker and bridge are transformed. 

? No-sleep drugs and fear inhibitors, originally for military use, are routinely used by football coaches, police academies, and concert soloists. Many drugs are activated through ingested or implanted chips that release dosages at the required intervals. 

? Individualized cocktails of neurotransmitter-tweaking drugs enable comprehensive shaping of temperament to accord with different situations. Those faced with tough work projects might take enhancers of mental focus, persistence, and self-confidence. Vacation-goers will be able to benignly heighten their receptiveness to novelty, libido, and sensory excitability. 

Heart 

? Genomic-testing services let you find out whether you carry gene variants associated with everything from musical talent to the tendency to take risks. Humans remain romantics and passion counts, but they are also as calculating as ever: Dating services will match people according to their genomically analyzed behavioral profiles. 

Organs 

? Custom-grown replacement parts. Doctors cut out the diseased bits, then thaw out and inject some of the patient's stem cells (routinely banked at birth). These rebuild the damaged organ. 

Blood Cells 

? Medical records include your complete genome, and medicines will be customized to your unique genetic configuration. That makes treatments more likely to succeed and less traumatic. Routine blood tests will involve thousands of measurements to test for various diseases. 

? The bloodstream is the highway for nanomachines and medicinal microbes. Equipped with tiny computers and genetically engineered antidotes, nanomachines will seek out and destroy cancer cells or other enemies without collateral damage. The microbes will generate healing compounds right where they're needed. 

Reproduction 

? Male contraceptive pills have been around for decades, but women still wonder: Is he really using them? 

? Cell technologies can transform male cells into egg cells. Therefore, two men can make a baby, which can develop outside the womb. 

? No more menopause: Women are fertile all their lives. 

? Babies are often tweaked by their parents through gene therapies --either to eliminate problems (e.g., Down syndrome, alcoholism) or to implant desired attributes (intelligence, pole- vaulting skill). 

Eyes 

? No more glasses or contacts, thanks to natural replacement lenses and muscular regeneration treatments. 

? Solar-powered microchip retinal implants cure certain forms of blindness by converting light into electric currents that zap the optic nerve into action. 

Ears 

? Brainstem implants that stimulate auditory processing centers eliminate most deafness. 

Teeth 

? No more cavities! Microbe mouthwash guarantees it. And if you lose a tooth? Grow a new one in a lab. 

Behavior 

? Anti-vice vaccinations. If lawsuits don't kill tobacco, this will. People can still smoke, but when they decide to stop, they do- -once and forever. Ditto for drug addicts and drunk drivers: If they are charged and convicted, they get a choice of incarceration or vaccination. 

? No more love handles, thanks to drugs that tweak metabolism to let you gorge without gaining weight. 

Limbs 

? We will be able to regrow appendages the way salamanders do, and the results will be indistinguishable from the original (except when they are better--for example, by not replicating unsightly moles). 

? High-tech replacements. When a limb cannot be regrown because of trauma or other reasons, manufactured replacements provide superior performance--i.e., knee joints that never wear out and can take tremendous stress, or elbows with freakish flexibility. The Olympic Games have given up on trying to stop doping but have drawn the line on this one. The new rule: original-limb athletes only. 

This New House 

No, this building doesn't look sci-fi. That's because we will still want to live in homes, not organic pods. But tomorrow's colonials and split-levels will be transformed--not just with hypersmart descendants of today's gizmos but also with biomaterials and friendly bugs. 

Kitchen 

? The refrigerator has long been a networked device that monitors freshness, orders food, and provides us with the nutritional lowdown on what's inside. But after 2050, the fridge is obsolete because meat and dairy products no longer spoil. (Brewskies and sodas will chill themselves.) 

? Food. Remember when yogurt had good-for-you active cultures? Now all food is active. What people used to call nourishment, prescription medicine, and nutritional supplements are all rolled into one. 

? The meaning of "clean" has changed. Where once we nuked our counters with cleansers to obliterate bacteria, our kitchens have now become havens of healthful microbes that eat noxious germs--and have that lemony, fresh smell. 

Bedroom 

? Mattresses are filled with wireless sensors that identify sudden medical conditions--a 4 A.M. heart attack or stroke immediately summons emergency services. 

? The floor is coated with material that kills harmful microorganisms and always feels cozy and warm. 

? Windows are membranes that filter air and light and clean themselves. 

Basement 

? Pipes and chutes separate and send all garbage to an energy processor. Everything gets used, either as compost or as fuel. A small hydrogen fuel-cell unit also provides power. 

? A water system collects, filters, and recycles waste to conserve a resource as precious as fine wine. 

? Junk room. We'll still be pack rats. 

Home office 

? Nanofactory. This is a desktop box, filled with chemical processors, computing, and robotics that can produce items from blueprints ordered online. See a nice blouse? After growing the silk in your basement bioworkshop, you will buy digital rights to the design online, then produce it. 

? Gizmos everywhere. Networked gadgets for communicating, displaying information, and organizing our lives are now so ubiquitous they've been absorbed into clothes and furniture. Even the walls attend to us, with eyes, ears, and memories. 

? Persistent technologies. The book endures. The paperless office never happens. That laptop on the desk? It's a quaint souvenir. 

Family room 

? Carpet. It's alive! Sort of, anyway. Through the cross- pollination of inorganic carpet filaments and bioengineered organic compounds, the carpet ingests dirt, spills, and stains. 

? TV is holographic and always on, streaming live feeds from homes of friends and relatives you like to hang out with remotely. You also use your TV to participate in community events and to vote. 

?Ritual shrines are the least techie feature. Religion--and the need for quiet contemplation--endure. And when you want to link to fellow believers, the interactive TV is right there. 

Bathroom 

? The medicine cabinet is stocked with nanotech diagnostic devices that you can swallow, plus bioactive pills and lotions that produce what your body needs. The mirror uses face-recognition technology to remind you to take your medicine. (An early prototype advised women on makeup choices. It failed, amid a storm of criticism.) 

? Sink. Home to the diagnostic toothbrush, which takes samples of saliva and blood; a sinktop analyzer can check for disease. There are also facial wipes that change color to warn of skin cancer. 

? Toilet. The seat of modern health. It measures body fat and temperature, analyzes urine and feces, and automatically confers with your health providers to spot problems early. 

Structure 

? Street addresses aren't used much. The house has GPS coordinates; all its occupants have personal network IDs that make them reachable pretty much anytime. 

? Power for appliances and gadgets is provided by tiny fuel cells. Backup wiring connects with the electrical grid and the fuel cell in the basement. 

? Smart monitors. If your 90-year-old grandmother collapses, the monitor knows why--and whom to contact. 

? A rotating platform allows the house to shift to catch the best rays, or just to change the view. 

? The roof has a garden that captures and cleans rainwater to replenish the household system. There are also self-renewing solar panels. 

? Sensors test for CO2, anthrax, environmental contaminants, allergens, and radioactivity, and defend against the release of chemical and biological agents. 

? Keyholes no longer exist. A biometric control pad monitors entry. 

? The exterior is coated with a substance that can change color on demand--for example, a dark shade in winter or pink for your little girl's birthday party. The outside is made of bio-produced material that looks just like wood or brick. (Twentieth-century retro is very big in 2080.) 

Yard 

? The lawn is a harmonious ecosystem that regulates itself. 

? The family car has been running on hydrogen for years and is mostly biodegradable. 

Four Tech Frontiers 

It's the law: Every list of predictions must include space vehicles for the common man. Call us conformist, but we are happy to oblige-- because NASA seems genuinely serious this time. Plus a fearless look at how three of today's most promising technologies will play out. 

Highway in the Sky 

In the opening credits of The Jetsons, George flies to work in his own space car. If NASA has its way, that fanciful image will become a reality sometime around the middle of this century. For the past few years the agency has been quietly building something it calls the Highway in the Sky, a computer system designed to let millions of people fly wherever they want and whenever they want, in their own vehicles. 

The dream of zooming around in "skycars" or "planemobiles" is as old as flight itself. But you don't want traffic jams in the sky. So, using Global Positioning System navigation and other technologies, NASA is working on a collision-deterring device that will function as an onboard air-traffic controller. 

Boeing, NASA, and several entrepreneurs are constructing such vehicles. One motorcycle-like machine called the AirScooter is now being built by longtime inventor Elwood "Woody" Norris. Powered by a small engine and two sets of blades, it can rise to 10,000 feet above sea level. Norris expects to begin selling it later this year for less than $50,000. NASA hopes to debut its first "personal air vehicle" in the next five years. 

In another 25 years or so, many of us will have tiny aircraft parked in our driveways that can drive as well as fly. We'll cruise about two miles to our local airfield, take off on short runways, fly up to 500 miles, and land at another airfield before finishing the trip by driving a couple of miles to our final destination. Eventually we'll have vehicles that can take off without runways, lifting vertically like helicopters. Coming soon: air rage. -- David Stires 

Nanotechnology

Nature is the ultimate engineer, building trees and flowers without fuss; nanomanufacturing, in effect, attempts to mimic the mechanics of nature, building devices from the atom up, as though they were Legos or building blocks but incredibly small and flexible. (A nanometer is one-billionth of a meter; for comparison, a nanometer is to an inch what an inch is to 400 miles.) These qualities will allow us to make things of unbelievable refinement with little use of energy, in small quantities, and without big centralized factories--indeed, even at home. The consequences are huge. Scientists have already created a molecular machine known as the nanovalve that will eventually deliver drugs capable of blasting a single cell. Nanotechnology will harness the sun's energy and split water into hydrogen and oxygen--thus creating a clean pool of hydrogen for fuel cells and other applications. Nanomanufacturing techniques are already being used to develop sensors that can detect a single molecule of a poison gas. -- Cait Murphy 

Information Ubiquity 

Any kind of information is available anytime you want it. Simply speak a question, or even think it, if you have trained your personal information receiver that way. You will always be connected wirelessly to the network, and an answer will return from a vast, collectively produced data matrix. Google queries will seem quaint. Point your always-on camera (in your glasses, your hat, or your hairpin) at someone on the street and get as much information as you want about them. You can locate anyone at any time and learn the outcome of any event worldwide instantly. Efforts to protect privacy have been long abandoned. Information is controlled by no one, because digital storage is essentially free. An individual can thus have archives as large as the government's, which makes efforts to restrict data hopeless. 

You record your entire life on video. Most people make their personal video histories freely searchable by others. Not doing so reduces the trustworthiness ratings that are a primary source of social status. Any book, magazine, or entertainment product is available free. You pay for digital material only because you choose to, for moral or practical reasons. You may, for instance, want to encourage an author to continue writing novels. There is still a place for storytellers, but computer programs automatically extract news and information relevant to you from all the data that is being created by individuals and organizations. Every challenge in life has become like an open-book test. -- David Kirkpatrick 

Synthetic Biology 

After decades of teasing apart the molecular gizmos inside living things, researchers put them together in novel ways to radically retool cells. They'll start by building multigene modules for desired metabolic functions. Analogous to computer plug-ins that give PCs new functions like wireless data transmission, the modules will be designed to plug into microbes to make them churn out everything from fuels to medicines to spider silk for ultralight body armor. Reengineered cows implanted with such modules will give human milk to use as infant formula, and Lewis Carroll--inspired synthetic biologists will use the technology to engender pigs with wings. (The animals won't fly, but barbecued pig wings will become all the rage at trendy, upscale restaurants.) Dark prospects will also loom--easy-to-use plug-ins will enable terrorists to create supervirulent infectious microbes. To counter that threat, bioengineers will have to come up with microscopic artificial life forms to single out and destroy all manner of disease-causing microorganisms. -- David Stipp 

The World, 2080 

We don't anticipate the massive boundary shifts or the dizzying creation of new countries that has marked the past 75 years. But we do think the way the world works will change--a lot. A sampling of scenarios from around the globe. 

Energy 

? Middle East. Weary of all the drawbacks associated with fossil fuels, the world makes a concerted effort to kick the habit. In 2040 oil consumption begins to fall in absolute terms, and by 2060 oil is a boutique fuel. Oil-dependent Middle East economies, which had never diversified, take a brutal hit--sparking violence. But then a promising generation of reformers emerges to replace their blundering predecessors. Their stated mission: devising a freer political system. 

? Iowa. Pushed by the effects of 2030's oil shock, the alchemy of turning crops into energy is finally mastered. Biofuels become big business, and young entrepreneurs flock to the heartland. 

? Singapore is the first country to ban nonhydrogen cars. By 2050, hybrid hydrogen-electric vehicles are king of the road everywhere. Tooling around in an oil-fueled SUV is regarded with as much horror as clubbing baby seals for fur. 

? Africa. Other than a handful of new nuclear plants, large- scale power projects are rare. Instead, micro-turbines fueled by a variety of sources provide on-the-spot power. One big beneficiary: Africa. No longer reliant on corrupt politicians to extend the grid, many communities finally have reliable power. And the civic organizations that made it happen gain force. These two trends bring new spirit to the continent. 

Environment 

? Bangladesh. Water has become the world's most valuable commodity, as efforts to control the weather are still unreliable (and the politics are a nightmare). Extremely wet Bangladesh builds an export business, farming water and piping it to industrial centers in China and India. 

? Micronesia. Global warming brings more and worse weather disasters; a melting polar ice cap raises sea levels. The low, flat, sparsely populated islands of Micronesia are swamped. Their people are resettled. Population centers that are uncomfortably close to sea level, such as Venice, lower Manhattan, and Egypt's Nile delta, struggle to cope. 

People 

? Italy. In 2059, with falling birth rates and increased intermarriage and immigration, Italy becomes the first European country to have a nonwhite majority. By 2075 all the traditional large centers of white skin--the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Oceania-- have followed suit. 

? Japan. It happened here first, but all over the rich world, old age is transformed. Aging has slowed and Alzheimer's has disappeared. The fragile elderly get around in exoskeletons. Intelligent machines and elder-care robots shoulder more of our cognitive burdens. Conde Nast launches a celebrity magazine for great-grandparents. The retirement age is 82. 

? China. Today's toddlers will have to figure out how to cope with the social problems caused by China's urban-rural inequal- ity and the huge disparity between the number of men and women (caused by two generations of parents who favored the birth of boys over girls). Another challenge: how to close the gap with India, which in 2068 overtakes China as the world's largest economy. 

? Saudi Arabia. States that keep their women uneducated and oppressed suffer economically. Those that figure out how to nurture female potential surge ahead. As the Arab woman goes, so goes the region. 

Economy 

? Latvia. Thanks to the example set by fast-growing Poland and the Baltics, the idea of a flat and simple tax system spreads. By 2080 everyone has adopted it, partly in response to the fiscal challenges posed by rapid aging. Except the French. They note that while a flat tax may work in practice, it is hopeless in theory. 

? Brazil. Shrinking populations cause local shortages of talent. So while countries still have border patrols, they also have recruitment bureaus to compete for immigrants with spe- cific skills. A Sao Paulo entrepre- neur sets up a global labor auction market where nations bid for talent. 

? California. The entrepreneur in the garage remains one of the world's most important people. 

? The oceans. When tuna prices spike in 2035, the world finally gets serious about species depletion and bans all commercial fishing. There is some cheating, but a multinational sea force does an effective job of policing. All fish for consumption is farmed; sport fishing is still allowed. 

? Planet Mars. In a race that has galvanized the world, America lands an astronaut on Mars in 2060, just beating China. It will be another 75 years before Mars can be developed as a proper frontier. 

Ten to Watch 

Fame is fleeting. But even if these men and women are not household names in 75 years, what they're doing now will have lasting influence. 

Gamal Mubarak 

President in waiting. An MBA who worked as an investment banker in London, Mubarak--despite protestations to the contrary--has been groomed to succeed his father, Hosni, as President of Egypt, the intellectual capital of the Arab world. Gamal, 42, is regarded as an economic reformer with a worldly outlook. Some believe he has the capacity to do what his 77-year-old father could not--make Egypt a workable model of tolerance, freedom, and prosperity. 

Barack Obama 

U.S. Senator (D-Illinois). The most charismatic politician of his generation, the 44-year-old Obama is a crossover politician with strong appeal among both black and white Americans. He will be a key player as the U.S. becomes a more racially diverse society. 

Ransom Myers 

Oceanographer. Myers's work on the dynamics of fish species provided startling evidence of the 90% population decline since 1950 in bluefin tuna, giant blue marlin, and other big fish. A professor at Canada's Dalhousie University, Myers is working to develop new and better ways to husband the wealth beneath the sea. 

Sergey Brin, Larry Page, Jimmy Wales 

Web stars. Brin and Page, founders of Google, brought to market the favorite roadmap for the web. In Wikipedia, Wales created a reader-written, interactive encyclopedia. The innovations this trio pioneered have accelerated the democratization of information on the Internet--a phenomenon that is only beginning to show its potential. In a future where information is everywhere all the time, the splashes Google and Wikipedia made will cast ripples in ways that are unpredictable but profound. 

Hwang Woo Suk 

Stem-cell researcher. A national hero in South Korea, Hwang, with his team at Seoul National University, has won headlines for cloning a cow, a pig, a human embryo, and a dog. The implications are huge. Cloned human embryos could yield therapeutic stem cells to provide breakthrough treatments for conditions as varied as Alzheimer's and spinal-cord trauma. The ethical debate is just beginning. But one thing is certain: Hwang's research will be a major factor in defining the future of medicine. 

Angela Belcher 

Nanotechnologist. Based at MIT, Belcher specializes in biomimicry- -investigating how nature grows things and then trying to replicate the process in the lab. The idea is to create forms that produce other things, such as genetically engineered viruses that can grow electronic components much as an abalone grows a shell. Possible applications run the gamut from vaccine storage to superstrong materials to improved computing. 

David Laibson 

Economist. The emerging discipline of neuro-economics says that economic decisions are the product of interactions between different brain parts that evolved at different times and for different reasons. Armed with this insight, scholars like Harvard's Laibson are beginning to reconstruct economics from the prefrontal cortex up. That might take us to a far better understanding of why consumers buy, why investors buy and sell--and how everything from 401(k) plans to marketing strategies to tax policies should be put together. 

Freddy Adu 

Soccer phenom. One final brave prediction: Adu, now 16, leads the U.S. to victory in the World Cup of 2020, providing the breakthrough that makes soccer a major sport in America. 

See also additional image(s) in Inside Cover image file of same issue. 

ILLUSTRATION: ILLUSTRATION BY MCKIBILLO ILLUSTRATION: ILLUSTRATION BY HARRY CAMPBELL THREE ILLUSTRATIONS: ILLUSTRATIONS BY DAVID PLUNKERT SEVEN ILLUSTRATIONS: ILLUSTRATIONS BY GUILBERT GATES PHOTO: KHALED DESOUKI--AFP/GETTY IMAGES PHOTO: DONNA COVENEY--MIT PHOTO: AP/ WIDE WORLD PHOTOS 


Document FORTU00020050907e19j0000d


More Like This

 Article 487 *******************    



Molecular Medicine; New tiny sensors spot disease before it occurs. 

Robert Langreth 
1,651 words 
19 September 2005
Forbes
107
Volume 176 Issue 5
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

New tiny sensors spot disease before it occurs. 

When doctors need to peek at mysterious goings-on inside the human body, they can skip the scalpel and rely on MRIs and CT scans. These state-of-the-art imaging technologies, successors to the X ray, reveal exquisitely detailed pictures of various tissues, organs and other anatomy. 

Yet some of the most important details are invisible to MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) and CT (computed tomography). They can't reveal the molecular defects that indicate whether an abnormal lump is cancerous or benign. They can't tell doctors which bad genes are active in a patient's tumor or whether a drug is reaching its intended target. The result, says Stanford University imaging researcher Dr. Sanjiv Gambhir: "Everyone is shooting blindly." 

But a new generation of far sharper imaging is on the way, deploying the emerging science of nanotechnology and other advanced methods to reveal invisible workings at a molecular and cellular level. Some techniques have just come into use; others are in patient trials (or about to begin them); some of the most daring are still in the lab. 

In five to ten years a flurry of new imaging agents--injected into the body to seek out and latch on to defective proteins in tumor cells, brain plaque in Alzheimer's patients, molecular flaws causing rheumatoid arthritis or small blood clots hidden in the brains of people who are about to have a stroke--may emerge. These "molecular beacons," as one researcher calls them, would work with MRIsand CTscans to better pinpoint the presence of disease. 

Ultimately these advances may let doctors spot disease-causing abnormalities long before any symptoms surface. Molecular imaging agents could speed the advent of a new era of personalized medicine, in which therapies are tailored to patients' individual gene maps and doctors can monitor the treatments' impacts on a molecular scale. 

"We are trying to revolutionize the way we look at the body," says Dr. Ralph Weissleder, who runs a big imaging lab at Massachusetts General Hospital. "A lot of times we are looking at shadows that are hard to interpret," adds Washington University cardiologist Samuel A. Wickline, cofounder of the drug startup Kereos. "In the future we will look at unique molecular beacons" that signal disease. 

The science is coming into place, but a big uncertainty remains."It's not clear what the business case is," says Daniel Sullivan, head of the National Cancer Institute's imaging program. Agents can cost half as much to develop as therapeutic drugs, but they may bring in only one-tenth the revenue, $50 million to $100 million annually per agent, Sullivan says. Most big drugmakers have ignored the area, leaving the field to midsize firms such as Germany's Schering and boutiques like Advanced Magnetics. 

Still the dramatic promise of molecular imaging has attracted a raft of startups and big guns such as General Electric and Siemens. "We want to be able to see the molecular signature of disease," says molecular biologist Michael Montalto, who sleuths for new brain-imaging agents at a GE lab in Niskayuna, N.Y. 

GE spent $9.4 billion last year to acquire the British molecular diagnostics firm Amersham and its line of imaging agents used for CT and MRI scans. In May Siemens of Germany paid $1 billion for CTI Molecular Imaging in Knoxville, Tenn., a leader in PET (or positron emission tomography) scans, which detect cellular metabolism. 

PET scans, invented in the 1970s, long were the neglected sibling of MRI and CTscans. But in the past five years their use has exploded, and the earliest examples of new molecular agents are showing up here. While MRI and CT capture images of anatomy, PET measures body chemistry. It involves injecting tiny amounts of a radioactive sugar called FDG into patients to spot areas of rapid metabolism. Fast-growing tumors gobble up the glucose more quickly and show up as hot spots on the resulting scan. 

PET technology was confined to the lab for many years but took off after Medicare started covering the scans for cancer patients in 2000. More than a million PET scans were done last year, and their number is growing upwards of 30% annually. In 2003 a study showed PET's strengths. Assessing a tumor's spread in lung cancer patients by using PET and CT combined was far more accurate than using either technique alone, researchers reported in the New England Journal of Medicine. PET finds the hot spots, and CT maps their anatomical location. 

Now scientists are working on new radioactive tracers that bind to different types of cellular structures. One tracer, FLT, being tested by the National Cancer Institute and GE detects the DNA synthesis that occurs when a cell divides. FLT may help oncologists get an immediate readout on whether cancer drugs are working, instead of having to wait a month or more for tumor shrinkage to show up on a CT scan. (GE produces equipment that hospitals use to synthesize the substance.) 

One promising PET pursuit involves tracers that can monitor the buildup of toxic amyloid protein fragments in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. They are a hallmark of the disease and may cause brain-cell death. But until now the only way to verify their presence has been postmortem, during an autopsy, and this has held back research for a cure. 

Both GE and Siemens are testing PET agents that can detect plaque buildup while patients still are alive--and perhaps even before they develop symptoms. GE's agent, licensed from the University of Pittsburgh, is a radioactive version of one of the chemical dyes used by pathologists to spot amyloid during autopsies. It was devised by the school's William Klunk, a geriatric psychiatrist, and radiochemist Chester Mathis. Klunk says one day a brain-plaque screening could do for Alzheimer's disease what tests of blood pressure and cholesterol levels did for heart disease. 

The Pittsburgh compound, injected into the body, filters into the brain, gloms on to amyloid protein present in the cortex and sends out a radioactive signal that can be detected by a PET scanner. In a study of 25 patients, researchers were able to clearly distinguish plaque levels in 16 with mild Alzheimer's versus 9 healthy controls, they wrote in a study in Annals of Neurology in 2004. 

Siemens is testing a plaque detector from UCLA called FDDNP; it homes in on both plaques and another Alzheimer's pathology called neurofibrillary tangles. In tests of the agent on patients with mild cognitive impairment, PET scans have shown how amyloid deposits slowly spread as the disease progresses to full-blown Alzheimer's, says Jorge R. Barrio, a molecular pharmacologist at UCLA. 

Initially the Alzheimer's PET tests will help drug firms get an early readout on whether their experimental antiplaque drugs are working. Roche and Eli Lilly have such compounds in early tests, and they recently hooked up with GE. One day people at high risk for the disease, instead of waiting for signs of dementia to emerge, could be screened at age 65 or 70 for traces of amyloid buildup in the brain and start taking antiamyloid drugs to stave off dementia, says researcher Klunk. 

Many doctors would like to be able to detect molecular abnormalities directly on MRI machines, which provide crisp anatomical detail and don't involve radiation. But designing targeted imaging agents for MRI requires tricky chemical engineering. Huge quantities of magnetic material have to bind to a body target in order to generate a signal strong enough for an MRI to detect. (PET tracers require only tiny amounts of radioactivity to create a good signal, making the chemistry simpler.) 

Kereos, an upstart shop in St. Louis, Mo., solves this by using 200-nanometer droplets of inert perfluorocarbons as molecular pincushions to hold a payload of up to 100,000 gadolinium molecules. To this the company attaches a smart drug that clamps on to a receptor called alpha(v)beta(3) integrin, which is abundant on tumor blood vessels. Kereos predicts the resulting drug will reliably "light up" tumors as small as 1 millimeter in diameter on MRI versus 5 millimeters for today's scans. "There's nothing out there today that can find 1- and 2-millimeter tumors," says Chief Executive Robert Beardsley. The nanodroplets also can be used to deliver concentrated doses of the chemo drug Taxol directly to tumors, bypassing healthy tissue. Human trials of both versions are slated for next year. 

Further along is a nanoparticle that helps MRIs spot tiny clumps of tumor cells that have spread to the lymph nodes. It's already at the Food & Drug Administration for approval, but the FDA has delayed a ruling and requested more data. Devised by researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital and Advanced Magnetics, a publicly held outfit in Cambridge, Mass., the nanoparticle consists of balls of 8,000 iron molecules held together with a sugary coating. About half the size of a virus, the nanoparticles are sucked up by healthy lymph nodes--but not by malfunctioning cancerous ones. In a test on 80 prostate cancer patients, the nanoparticles enabled MRI scans to spot more than 95% of lymph-node metastases (confirmed later by biopsies). Old MRI scans could find fewer than half of them. 

But how to turn these advances into a profitable business? The new imaging may have to go beyond diagnosing only symptomatic patients to find a bigger market, as a routine test akin to cholesterol screening in millions of healthy people. To accelerate the imaging revolution, researchers say, the FDA should adopt a sleeker and less-costly approval process for new agents. To that recipe add a dollop of magic:a few big successes in human trials to prove their health-altering potential. 

Document FB00000020050909e19j0000r


More Like This

 Article 488 *******************    



WSJ Guide to Business Schools: Recruiter's Top Picks (A Special Report) --- Spreading Its Wings: Purdue may be No. 1 in the Regional rankings, but it is trying to think a lot bigger 

By Ronald Alsop 
1,045 words 
21 September 2005
The Wall Street Journal
R7
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

THE TOP-RANKED Regional school is addressing one of its chief weaknesses by aiming to become a little less regional. 

In The Wall Street Journal/Harris Interactive survey of corporate recruiters, Purdue University's Krannert School of Management received one of its lowest ratings for students' international knowledge and experience. But in the coming year, the West Lafayette, Ind., school plans to extend its reach beyond the Midwest by establishing academic partnerships in China. 

Krannert recently signed a letter of intent with Zhejiang University's management school to explore student and faculty exchanges and other joint projects. It also has been in talks with Beijing University and Tsinghua University, which is interested in a relationship with both Purdue's business and engineering schools. 

"We need to expand our global program offerings and have been looking in China and Korea," says Krannert Dean Richard Cosier. "We've decided to concentrate on China for now, because it is going to be such a major focus for global business." 

The Krannert School earned its No. 1 ranking because of high ratings for students' analytical and problem-solving skills and their willingness to relocate, as well as for being a good value for the money invested in the recruiting effort. Recruiters also like Purdue M.B.A.s' dogged work habits. 

"The students who have joined us from Purdue tend to fit the strong work ethic of my company," says Russell Flugel, a financial manager at Air Products & Chemicals Inc. "Air Products also values their analytical capabilities. They are often successful in joining a part of our finance function called `Decision Support,' where much of the work is focused on helping to make business decisions based on risk/reward and data analysis." 

Established in 1958 as the School of Industrial Management, Purdue's business school grew out of the university's economics department and its engineering school. Since then, it has maintained its focus on quantitative skills, operations management, manufacturing and technology. In the Journal survey, recruiters ranked Krannert among the top 10 schools in the academic disciplines of operations management and information technology. 

Although still closely connected to manufacturing companies, Krannert has been shedding its industrial image and creating a more high-tech reputation. For example, it is an integral part of Purdue's interdisciplinary Discovery Park complex, which includes centers on entrepreneurship, the environment, nanotechnology, bioscience and e-enterprise. Krannert also is expanding in the medical area. Some Krannert operations professors are working with their university colleagues on a project to make health-care delivery more efficient, and the business school plans to develop a joint master's program with Purdue's biomedical-engineering department. 

Krannert's robust reputation for engineering and technology has its downside, however. For one thing, school officials believe the quantitative image deters many women from applying to Krannert. About half of the students have backgrounds in engineering and science, fields traditionally less popular with women. With women representing only 18% of its full-time M.B.A.s, Krannert lags far behind other top-ranked schools with a 30% or higher share of women. 

Operations management and technology also overshadow some of Krannert's other strengths, causing frustration among some professors who feel that finance, marketing and other academic areas get too little attention. A recent study in the Journal of Finance Literature did single out Krannert professors John McConnell and Wilbur Lewellen as two of the most prolific finance researchers. 

But Krannert's future clearly is quantitative-based. Based on input from students and recruiters, Krannert recently added three new areas of academic concentration for its M.B.A. students: global supply-chain management, analytical consulting, and technological innovation and entrepreneurship. In addition, Dean Cosier says, "We're looking into an executive M.B.A. degree focused on energy." 

Krannert is expanding its academic offerings after adding 20 faculty members over the past four years. By creating the three new interdisciplinary study options, the school hopes to attract more high-caliber M.B.A. applicants, as well as new corporate recruiters. "We started our regular four-year program review by benchmarking our programs against schools such as Harvard, MIT, Stanford and Northwestern," says Manohar Kalwani, the management professor who headed the faculty review group. "Our overarching goal was to provide students with a curriculum that is flexible, up-to-date and innovative. We looked at designing option areas that reflect and reinforce the school's strengths." 

Enrollment is starting to pick up in Purdue's executive M.B.A. program, but the school still faces an application downturn for its full-time M.B.A. degree. The number of applicants fell 27% in 2004 and 15% this year. That trend has compelled the school to reduce its full-time enrollment about 20% from the level of just a few years back. "It's been pretty challenging," says Dean Cosier, noting that the volume of foreign applications, particularly from China, continues to be weak. "Some schools are dropping their quality indicators to keep class size up. But our strategy is to keep quality as high as we can." 

To that end, Krannert has been raising the bar on work experience. The school has tended to admit engineering students with an outstanding undergraduate academic record even though they have spent little time in the workplace, but such modest experience is a sore point with corporate recruiters. So, Krannert students now have an average of 4.6 years of work experience, up from four years previously 

Krannert enjoyed a strong placement season this year. Salaries and signing bonuses rose about 8%, and such industries as financial services and technology stepped up their recruiting. Students' top career choices continued to be marketing, operations and finance. 

"The academic quality, student preparedness and helpful staff make recruiting at Purdue a painless experience," says Darris Sherman, who works in category management at General Electric Co.'s Universal Studios Home Entertainment unit. "Purdue's strong focus on marketing, strategy and operations fits well with GE's growth-oriented and process-driven culture." 

Document J000000020050921e19l00003


More Like This

 Article 489 *******************    



Books: Here It Comes 

By Glenn Harlan Reynolds 
957 words 
1 October 2005
The Wall Street Journal
P8
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

The Singularity Is Near 

By Ray Kurzwell 

Viking, 652 pages, $29.95 

THE BEARDED fellow with a sign reading "The End Is Nigh" is a staple of editorial cartoons. The title-phrase of "The Singularity Is Near" is obviously meant to evoke that image, and for any reader who is slow to catch on Ray Kurzweil makes the allusion clear in Chapter 7 ("Ich bin ein Singularitarian") with an amusing photo of himself holding up a sign announcing the imminence of the Singularity. But Mr. Kurzweil's book is about beginnings, not endings. 

The Singularity is a term coined by futurists to describe that point in time when technological progress has so transformed society that predictions made in the present day, already a hit-and-miss affair, are likely to be very, very wide of the mark. Much of Mr. Kurzweil's book consists of a closely argued analysis suggesting that the Singularity is, well, near: poised to appear in a mere three or four decades. 

PEOPLE'S THOUGHTS of the future tend to follow a linear extrapolation -- steadily more of the same, only better -- while most technological progress is exponential, happening by giant leaps and thus moving farther and faster than the mind can easily grasp. Mr. Kurzweil himself, thinking exponentially, imagines a plausible future, not so far away, with extended life-spans (living to 300 will not be unusual), vastly more powerful computers (imagine more computing power in a head-sized device than exists in all the human brains alive today), other miraculous machines (nanotechnology assemblers that can make most anything out of sunlight and dirt) and, thanks to these technologies, enormous increases in wealth (the average person will be capable of feats, like traveling in space, only available to nation-states today). 

Naturally, Mr. Kurzweil has little time for techno-skeptics like the Nobel Prize-winning chemist Richard Smalley, who in September 2001 published a notorious piece in Scientific American debunking the claims of nanotechnologists, in particular the possibility of nano-robots (nanobots) capable of assembling molecules and substances to order. Mr. Kurzweil's arguments countering Dr. Smalley and his allies are a pleasure to read -- Mr. Kurzweil clearly thinks that nanobots are possible -- but in truth he is fighting a battle that is already won. These days skeptics worry that advanced technologies, far from failing to deliver on their promises, will deliver on them only too well -- ushering in a dystopia of, say, destructive self-replication in which the world is covered by nanobots that convert everything into copies of themselves (known in the trade as the "gray goo" problem). Mr. Kurzweil's sense of things isn't nearly so bleak as that -- he is an optimist, after all, an enthusiast for the techno-future -- but he does sound a surprisingly somber note. 

Indeed, "The Singularity Is Near" is partly a cautionary tale. Having established that we're going to face a very different world in the second half of the 21st century -- and face it healthier, wealthier and more artificially intelligent if not precisely wiser -- Mr. Kurzweil concedes that so-called GNR technologies (genetics, nanotech and robotics) may present problems. We may find ourselves battling genetically enhanced super pathogens, deadly military nanobots and powerful "unfriendly" artificial intelligences scheming against those of us with mere natural intelligence. Though Mr. Kurzweil regards these threats as manageable, he does not minimize them and offers chilling scenarios of what could go wrong. These scenarios are all the more credible because they come from Mr. Kurzweil and not from one of the usual gang of scaremongering Luddites. 

Unlike the Luddites, Mr. Kurzweil argues that the best way of curbing technology's potential harm is ... more technology. He notes that to pull back on forward-looking research, or to abandon various machine-marvels, will only make things worse by driving research underground and into irresponsible hands. Instead we should start thinking now about how to safeguard society from technology gone wrong. 

Mr. Kurzweil advocates prophylactic measures like the Asilomar guidelines for recombinant DNA research, which require special precautions for dangerous pathogens and restrict the most serious meddling. He also calls for much more research into antiviral drugs, rapid vaccines, defensive nanotech and artificial intelligence designed to remain friendly. 

IT IS A PERSUASIVE PLEA, but will anyone listen in time? The political system tends to lag behind technological change, which is often a good thing. I remember attending a House subcommittee hearing in the 1980s on whether the U.S. should create a phone-computer system modeled on the state-funded French Minitel, a text-only network being promoted as the wave of the future. Fortunately, the Internet exploded -- making Minitel obsolete -- before Congress could fund such a project. 

But when it comes to the dangers that Mr. Kurzweil worries about, the slow approach is a problem. The government is so often behind the curve -- think of how sluggishly it adapts to changes in employment patterns, shifts in international trade or attacks of new diseases like avian flu. What happens when the curve is an exponential one? 

Perhaps it won't matter. As Mr. Kurzweil notes, private entrepreneurs seem to have pushed back the threat of computer viruses, for instance, moving more rapidly and more effectively than any government agency ever could. And certainly free-marketeers reading Mr. Kurzweil's book will see opportunities for profit: Imagine the billions to be made from rapid vaccine-production technologies in a world where genetic engineering is common. But I would feel more comfortable if more people started following Mr. Kurzweil's advice in the near future, before the Singularity gets here. 

--- 

Mr. Reynolds is a professor of law at the University of Tennessee. 

Document J000000020051001e1a100019


More Like This

 Article 490 *******************    



Books: Here It Comes 

By Glenn Harlan Reynolds 
977 words 
1 October 2005
The Wall Street Journal
P8
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

[Technology's progress will soon accelerate -- exponentially. You have no idea how much. Ray Kurzweil does, says Glenn Harlan Reynolds] 

The Singularity Is Near 

By Ray Kurzwell 

Viking, 652 pages, $29.95 

THE BEARDED fellow with a sign reading "The End Is Nigh" is a staple of editorial cartoons. The title-phrase of "The Singularity Is Near" is obviously meant to evoke that image, and for any reader who is slow to catch on Ray Kurzweil makes the allusion clear in Chapter 7 ("Ich bin ein Singularitarian") with an amusing photo of himself holding up a sign announcing the imminence of the Singularity. But Mr. Kurzweil's book is about beginnings, not endings. 

The Singularity is a term coined by futurists to describe that point in time when technological progress has so transformed society that predictions made in the present day, already a hit-and-miss affair, are likely to be very, very wide of the mark. Much of Mr. Kurzweil's book consists of a closely argued analysis suggesting that the Singularity is, well, near: poised to appear in a mere three or four decades. 

PEOPLE'S THOUGHTS of the future tend to follow a linear extrapolation -- steadily more of the same, only better -- while most technological progress is exponential, happening by giant leaps and thus moving farther and faster than the mind can easily grasp. Mr. Kurzweil himself, thinking exponentially, imagines a plausible future, not so far away, with extended life-spans (living to 300 will not be unusual), vastly more powerful computers (imagine more computing power in a head-sized device than exists in all the human brains alive today), other miraculous machines (nanotechnology assemblers that can make most anything out of sunlight and dirt) and, thanks to these technologies, enormous increases in wealth (the average person will be capable of feats, like traveling in space, only available to nation-states today). 

Naturally, Mr. Kurzweil has little time for techno-skeptics like the Nobel Prize-winning chemist Richard Smalley, who in September 2001 published a notorious piece in Scientific American debunking the claims of nanotechnologists, in particular the possibility of nano-robots (nanobots) capable of assembling molecules and substances to order. Mr. Kurzweil's arguments countering Dr. Smalley and his allies are a pleasure to read -- Mr. Kurzweil clearly thinks that nanobots are possible -- but in truth he is fighting a battle that is already won. These days skeptics worry that advanced technologies, far from failing to deliver on their promises, will deliver on them only too well -- ushering in a dystopia of, say, destructive self-replication in which the world is covered by nanobots that convert everything into copies of themselves (known in the trade as the "gray goo" problem). Mr. Kurzweil's sense of things isn't nearly so bleak as that -- he is an optimist, after all, an enthusiast for the techno-future -- but he does sound a surprisingly somber note. 

Indeed, "The Singularity Is Near" is partly a cautionary tale. Having established that we're going to face a very different world in the second half of the 21st century -- and face it healthier, wealthier and more artificially intelligent if not precisely wiser -- Mr. Kurzweil concedes that so-called GNR technologies (genetics, nanotech and robotics) may present problems. We may find ourselves battling genetically enhanced super pathogens, deadly military nanobots and powerful "unfriendly" artificial intelligences scheming against those of us with mere natural intelligence. Though Mr. Kurzweil regards these threats as manageable, he does not minimize them and offers chilling scenarios of what could go wrong. These scenarios are all the more credible because they come from Mr. Kurzweil and not from one of the usual gang of scaremongering Luddites. 

Unlike the Luddites, Mr. Kurzweil argues that the best way of curbing technology's potential harm is . . . more technology. He notes that to pull back on forward-looking research, or to abandon various machine-marvels, will only make things worse by driving research underground and into irresponsible hands. Instead we should start thinking now about how to safeguard society from technology gone wrong. 

Mr. Kurzweil advocates prophylactic measures like the Asilomar guidelines for recombinant DNA research, which require special precautions for dangerous pathogens and restrict the most serious meddling. He also calls for much more research into antiviral drugs, rapid vaccines, defensive nanotech and artificial intelligence designed to remain friendly. 

IT IS A PERSUASIVE PLEA, but will anyone listen in time? The political system tends to lag behind technological change, which is often a good thing. I remember attending a House subcommittee hearing in the 1980s on whether the U.S. should create a phone-computer system modeled on the state-funded French Minitel, a text-only network being promoted as the wave of the future. Fortunately, the Internet exploded -- making Minitel obsolete -- before Congress could fund such a project. 

But when it comes to the dangers that Mr. Kurzweil worries about, the slow approach is a problem. The government is so often behind the curve -- think of how sluggishly it adapts to changes in employment patterns, shifts in international trade or attacks of new diseases like avian flu. What happens when the curve is an exponential one? 

Perhaps it won't matter. As Mr. Kurzweil notes, private entrepreneurs seem to have pushed back the threat of computer viruses, for instance, moving more rapidly and more effectively than any government agency ever could. And certainly free-marketeers reading Mr. Kurzweil's book will see opportunities for profit: Imagine the billions to be made from rapid vaccine-production technologies in a world where genetic engineering is common. But I would feel more comfortable if more people started following Mr. Kurzweil's advice in the near future, before the Singularity gets here. 

--- 

Mr. Reynolds is a professor of law at the University of Tennessee. 

Document J000000020051003e1a100002


More Like This

 Article 491 *******************    



Voices of Innovation

Stephen Wolfram: Simple Solutions; The iconoclastic physicist's Mathematica software nails complex puzzles 

By Otis Port 
614 words 
3 October 2005
BusinessWeek
24
Volume 3953
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Even if you're not into exotic subjects such as particle physics, cosmology, or math theory, chances are pretty good that you know about Mathematica, the program created by physicist Stephen Wolfram. He's the iconoclastic London-born genius who won a PhD from California Institute of Technology in just one year, at age 20. 

Since Mathematica's launch in 1988 by Wolfram Research Inc., the software has become hugely popular among product designers, architects, and financial analysts. And for engineers and scientists, Mathematica is something of a bible. Wolfram's software is used not only to solve complex math problems but also to create and analyze computer models. It can predict how varying the ingredients in a shampoo will alter its flow through different-size bottle openings, for example, or how the pounding of ocean waves will affect a breakwater. 

Mathematica quickly made Stephen Wolfram a multimillionaire -- and funded more than a decade of independent research into fundamental issues in science. But the program wasn't just a cash cow. It was Wolfram's primary tool in searching for the principles that govern a wide range of enigmas, from how the universe was formed to why zebras have stripes. 

After finding simple, algorithmic answers to many questions that remain unexplained by traditional theories, Wolfram self-published the results of his work in a controversial 2002 book called A New Kind of Science. It's a dense tome of 1,200 pages, yet it has sold more than 200,000 copies, at up to $45 a pop. In addition, some 500,000 people have downloaded free chapters or entire copies from www.wolframscience.com . 

A lot of mainstream scientists scoffed at NKS, Wolfram's shorthand for A New Kind of Science. Nobel laureate Steven Weinberg, a University of Texas physicist, writing in The New York Review of Books, labeled the book a ``failure,'' but ``an interesting one.'' 

Was Wolfram disappointed? Nope. ``What I'm trying to do is make a new kind of science, not win a Nobel prize,'' he says. To show that his ideas are starting to catch on, he points to a steadily growing stream of scientific papers ``following up on NKS.'' The number of papers is climbing toward 1,000, with roughly 15 cropping up every week in peer-reviewed journals. 

Since finishing his book, Wolfram, who turned 46 in August, has been developing new and more advanced algorithmic tools for Mathematica while also pondering the almost limitless applications he sees for NKS. ``Look at almost any area -- nanotechnology or drug design or network routing or all sorts of other things -- and NKS can provide fascinating insights and new technologies.'' 

One that has just emerged is dubbed WolframTones. It's an NKS program on a Web site ( http://tones.wolfram.com ) that people can use to create unique ring tones for cell phones. WolframTones was ``almost frivolously conceived,'' the physicist admits: He wanted his own cell phone to have a distinctive ring and his program worked better than expected. 

The next revision of Mathematica won't be the least bit frivolous, though. ``It will end up being the biggest change since version 1,'' Wolfram declares, because it will ``go incredibly much farther. I myself need the things we're building to go to the next level of NKS.'' He hopes to discover the program that runs the universe -- meaning the entire universe and everything in it. He's betting it will be an astonishingly simple program, like all the others in NKS: probably just a handful of lines of Mathematica code. 

Document BW00000020051005e1a30000f


More Like This

 Article 492 *******************    



Developments to Watch: DIET

Particles To Trick Your Tummy Into Feeling Full 

By Rod Kurtz Edited by Adam Aston 
169 words 
10 October 2005
BusinessWeek
79
Volume 3954
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Forget Atkins and South Beach -- the next big weight-loss craze might be ``the invisible diet.'' Using nano-scale particles -- about a billionth of a meter in size -- researchers at Utah State University aim to trick the body into feeling sated by stimulating receptor proteins on cells in the small intestine. When stimulated, the cells send chemical signals to the brain indicating that fat has been ingested. But in some overweight people, these fat receptors may not be sensitive enough, causing them to eat more fatty foods. 

The nano approach could cut willpower out of the diet equation. ``People will be dieting, but they won't really be thinking 'I have to stop eating now,''' says Tim Gilbertson, the Utah State biology professor overseeing the study. His lab is working to identify a nanoscale drug that will target the fat receptors and speed up production of the missing chemical signals. 

Document BW00000020051006e1aa00017


More Like This

 Article 493 *******************    



International Business: FRANCE

HP'S FRENCH TWIST; Why its plan to lay off 1,200 in France has reverberated all the way up to President Chirac's office 

By Carol Matlack in Grenoble, with Peter Burrows in San Mateo 
1,328 words 
10 October 2005
BusinessWeek
52
Volume 3954
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Shock waves have been emanating from Grenoble ever since mid-September, when U.S. tech giant Hewlett-Packard Co. announced it would eliminate more than 1,200 jobs in France. A big chunk of the cuts is likely to come from this pleasant city of 425,000 in the French Alps, where HP employs 2,400 people, about half its French work force. Angry HP workers poured into the streets when they learned of the plan, and Grenoble's mayor on Sept. 20 led a delegation to HP's Palo Alto headquarters, where he received a polite but noncommittal reception. 

The protests didn't stop there. HP's European brass were summoned to Paris on Sept. 26 for a meeting with France's Labor Minister. Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin suggested that companies might be required to sign a ``code of conduct'' limiting their ability to lay off workers if, as in HP's case, the government financed road works and other improvements benefiting their factories. President Jacques Chirac even asked the European Commission to intervene, although his request was quickly rebuffed. HP, for its part, appears undeterred. ``We all know how politicians are. For better or for worse, this has provided them a platform to get some air time. But we don't feel it's going to impact our ability to do what we've announced,'' Todd Bradley, executive vice-president of HP's Personal Systems Group, told an investors' conference in San Francisco on Sept. 22. 

Grenoble seems an unlikely site for such an uproar. For more than a decade it has billed itself as France's answer to Silicon Valley -- and with good reason. It is a world-class research center, with scores of public and private labs studying everything from advanced materials to microelectronics. In valleys leading out of the city, cow pastures have given way to office parks and gleaming factories run by multinationals such as Royal Philips Electronics and STMicroelectronics, as well as successful local companies such as Sofileta, a manufacturer of high-tech industrial textiles, and IT company Groupe Silicomp. At 8.7%, Grenoble's unemployment rate is well below the national average of 10.1%. The tech workforce of 25,500 is set to grow over the next few years as Grenoble and the surrounding Isere region get a major infusion of aid from Paris to encourage nanotechnology research and development. ``Can the local economy absorb the shock from HP? Yes,'' says Jean-Paul Giraud, president of the Agency for Studies and Promotion of Isere. 

So why all the protests? Politics, for one thing. Chirac and his government have made fighting unemployment their top domestic priority. News of the HP layoffs plays into national fears that France is losing jobs to lower-cost countries in Eastern Europe and Asia. Companies such as Philips and IBM have already eliminated hundreds of jobs in France in recent months while expanding their payrolls in places such as Poland, China, and India. HP hasn't said whether any of the jobs in Grenoble will be transferred elsewhere. But employees note the company has a fast-growing facility in Slovakia that performs some of the same functions as its site in the Grenoble suburb of Eybens, which handles an array of functions from customer support to software development. 

Eric Gaude, an engineer at the Eybens facility, says that many laid-off workers could probably find other jobs in the area -- though probably not as high-paying as at HP, where employee unions say the average annual salary is about $48,000. The deeper fear, he says, is that HP, which first set up shop in Grenoble in 1971, will eventually shutter most of its operations here: ``There's a sense of treason.'' 

Grenoble's authorities have complained bitterly that when HP wanted to expand the Eybens site in 1998, local governments spent more than $2 million to acquire and clear a piece of adjacent property that they then resold to the company for less than $500,000. Patrick Starck, the president of HP France, says HP never promised to create jobs in exchange for the assistance. Moreover, he says that over the past decade HP has paid more than $840 million in French taxes, including about $90 million to the municipality of Eybens. ``We've been a good citizen,'' he says. 

Dig a little deeper, and there's still another reason for Grenoble's angst. Despite generous seeding from Paris, the Silicon Alps region has not developed the rich ecosystem of high-tech startups and spin-offs that makes Silicon Valley's labor market so resilient. True, government research sites such as the Laboratory for Electronic and Information Technology (LETI) have served as incubators for some successful startups. One is Soitec, a 13-year-old company with $167 million in annual sales that is a world leader in supplying advanced insulation technology to the semiconductor industry. Yet unlike Silicon Valley, it's relatively rare in Grenoble for people to quit their jobs at one of the big high-tech outfits and take a stab at starting their own businesses. Of 48 recent high-tech startups listed by the local economic development agency, only a dozen were spun off from other companies, while the rest were hatched at government labs. ``France does not have a culture of risk and entrepreneurship,'' says Alain Lefebvre, one of four former HP employees who started VoluBill, a Grenoble-based company that provides customer-billing technology to mobile-phone operators. 

Risk aversion may be one part of the problem, but government regulations are another. Even a startup like VoluBill, with 55 employees, has to give two months' paid vacation to its employees because of worker-friendly French labor laws. Strict anti-layoff laws mean that workers at big companies have come to expect that their jobs are guaranteed for life -- unless the company pays them handsomely to leave. That's what happened at HP in 2003, when the company eliminated 1,300 jobs in Grenoble through early-retirement plans and buyouts that topped $250,000 for some workers. Under those conditions, it's hardly surprising that few employees strike out on their own. 

The outlook for Grenoble isn't all gloomy. The pace of high-tech business creation has picked up since 1999, when France passed legislation allowing government researchers to take leaves of absence to start innovative businesses, says Jean-Bernard Schmidt, president of venture-capital group Sofinnova Partners in Paris. More recently, France's center-right government has started providing tax breaks to companies trying to commercialize new technologies, while relaxing some regulations on small businesses. For instance, in August, a new type of contract was introduced that allows companies with fewer than 20 workers to fire new hires more easily. Some 30,000 such contracts were signed in August alone. 

French startups also are benefiting from greater access to venture capital. Sofinnova has financed recent startups originating from such French giants as defense and electronics group Thales and pharmaceutical maker sanofi-aventis Group. ``The ingredients are now there,'' says Schmidt. But the allure of the Silicon Alps may no longer be enough to captivate HP and other multinationals. 

Silicon Alps 

France's Grenoble region is a high-tech hotbed 

INDUSTRY 

High-tech businesses employ 25,500 people in IT, electronics, software, and nanotechnology

EDUCATION 

Four universities and other advanced training centers enroll more than 61,000 students 

RESEARCH 

Government labs and universities employ 12,600 researchers; 4,500 more work for private companies 

Data: Agence d'Etudes et de Promotion de L'Isere 

illustration | Illustration: Map: Silicon Alps MAP BY LAUREL DAUNIS-ALLEN/BW | photograph | Photograph: STORMING MAD HP employees protest in Grenoble PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS/REA/REDUX 


Document BW00000020051006e1aa0002c


More Like This

 Article 494 *******************    



Up Front: FACE TIME

Jeong Kim: In Search Of Buzz At Bell Labs 

By Elizabeth Woyke Edited by Catherine Arnst 
174 words 
17 October 2005
BusinessWeek
18
Volume 3955
English
(c) 2005 McGraw-Hill, Inc. 

Lucent Technologies Bell Labs' new president, Jeong Kim, wants to ensure the vaunted research institute lives up to its reputation for breakthrough technology. He says he's choosing ``a selective few bets, so we can make a big impact.'' That includes using nanotechnology to create speakers and lenses not much thicker than a human hair. Placed on walls and clothes, they could pinpoint a person's location by picking up audio, video, smell, and movement cues. Kim predicts widespread adoption within 5 to 10 years. 

Kim, 45, first joined Lucent Technologies in 1998 after the company acquired his communications equipment startup, Yurie Systems. Since his return in April from a teaching gig at the University of Maryland, he has been running the Labs as more of a startup, emphasizing risk-taking, speed, and creativity. Kim believes that his varied experiences will help him promote more new discoveries: ``Everything about me is entrepreneurial,'' he says. 

Document BW00000020051013e1ah0001v


More Like This

 Article 495 *******************    



Technology (A Special Report) --- A Better Idea: The Wall Street Journal's 2005 Technology Innovation Awards 

By Michael Totty 
2,574 words 
24 October 2005
The Wall Street Journal
R1
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

GENE SEQUENCING -- THE process of unlocking an individual's DNA -- could one day revolutionize medicine, allowing doctors to quickly identify someone's genetic makeup and craft individual treatments for such diseases as cancer and tuberculosis. But first, there has to be a way to speed the cumbersome, slow and expensive sequencing process. 

Jonathan Rothberg, founder and chairman of the 454 Life Sciences unit of CuraGen Corp., Branford, Conn., says he found a solution in microelectronics. Just as semiconductor designers were able to squeeze millions of transistors onto a single chip, Mr. Rothberg devised a way to analyze the makeup of millions of DNA strands simultaneously. 

The genome-sequencing technique from 454 Life Sciences was selected as the Gold winner in The Wall Street Journal's 2005 Technology Innovation Awards competition. Innovative technologies from around the world were eligible for awards in categories including biotechnology, software, security, energy and the environment, among others. 

Judges selected Gold, Silver and Bronze winners, as well as giving out an Honorable Mention award. They also named winners in each of 12 categories and a total of 20 runners-up. 

Around 750 applications were screened by a Wall Street Journal editor, who narrowed the field to 104 semifinalists. Then a panel of expert judges from industry, research organizations and academia scored each entry and picked the winners. 

Entries were judged on two main criteria: Does the innovation represent a breakthrough from conventional ideas or methods in its field, and does it go beyond incremental improvements on technologies that already exist? Some judges also considered the utility of the innovation. "I looked at how much of an impact it's going to have -- really how useful it is," says one judge, Diane Greene, president of VMware Inc., a Palo Alto, Calif., company that sells software that enables different operating systems to run on a single computer. 

The Silver award was given to Ecology Coatings, of Akron, Ohio, for developing protective coatings that don't require polluting solvents and can be used without expensive, energy-intensive curing. 

Sally Ramsey, Ecology Coatings' co-founder and chief chemist, developed the coatings in the early 1990s while looking for an environmentally friendly protective layer for metal products. Paints and coatings typically rely on lengthy and expensive curing with heat lamps and are made with solvents that are potentially harmful to the environment and require users to comply with costly regulations. 

After experimenting with different formulations, Ms. Ramsey hit upon a mixture that adheres well even to difficult metals, like brass; that can be applied using standard coating equipment; and that dries quickly under common ultraviolet light. Two years ago, she begin using nanoparticles in the coatings, which enables them to be used on plastics or to waterproof paper. 

The Bronze winner was Alien Technology Corp., a Morgan Hill, Calif., semiconductor company that has developed a manufacturing process that dramatically reduces the cost of radio-frequency identification, or RFID, tags. 

Tiny RFID tags promise to revolutionize inventory management for retailers, libraries and military quartermasters by the wireless tracking of products from the factory floor to the loading dock to the display shelf. For the tags to become widely used, costs have to plunge to only pennies a tag, compared with about 50 cents with traditional manufacturing methods. These traditional techniques rely on mechanically assembling tiny integrated circuits into RFID tags using a robotic arm. 

To slash production costs, Alien's founder and chief technology officer, J. Stephen Smith, devised a process called Fluidic Self Assembly that floats RFID chips in a water-based slurry. When the slurry is passed over tag material, the individual chips automatically settle into position. Where mechanical methods can produce about 1,000 tags an hour, Alien's fluidic process can make about two million an hour, dramatically driving down the price to about 20 cents a tag, with the promise of further reductions. The company now provides tags to Gillette and other consumer-goods makers. 

In addition to the main winners, the judges awarded an Honorable Mention to a team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a public-health organization in Nepal for a low-tech, relatively low-cost home water-filtration system for use in developing countries. The team, led by MIT research engineer and lecturer Susan Murcott, sought to address one of the most pressing public-health problems in developing countries: the lack of clean drinking water, especially for those living in rural areas or urban slums. Millions of people die every year from water-related illnesses, with many of the victims young children. 

The group sought to devise a simple household water filter that could be easily made using local labor and materials. After seven years, they came up with a solution using plastic food-storage bins, gravel, sand and ungalvanized nails that successfully removes harmful bacteria and arsenic (naturally occurring in streams and groundwater in parts of Southern Asia) from drinking water. The team estimates each system could be sold for about $20. 

Here are the winners in all 12 industry categories. 

Biotech-Medical 

454 Life Sciences won in this category with its method for low-cost gene sequencing. 

Mr. Rothberg, then the chairman and chief executive of genomics-based pharmaceutical company CuraGen, began pondering the problem the night his newborn son was taken to the infant intensive-care unit with breathing difficulties. He spent the night wishing doctors could just decode his son's DNA to determine whether the problem signaled a genetic disorder like cystic fibrosis. 

At the time, gene sequencing could only be done with a technique called the Sanger method, named after one of the scientists who won the Nobel Prize in 1980 for its development. The process is powerful but slow; quick genetic analysis of any individual -- and the personalized gene therapy that could follow -- would be too costly or time-consuming to be practical. 

Mr. Rothberg found inspiration in the world of microelectronics, where for years a chip's processing power and storage capacity have doubled every year or two. Looking for a gene-sequencing procedure that could be repeatedly miniaturized, he turned to a less powerful technique for dividing genetic material into manageable pieces, which could be analyzed simultaneously. 

The result: a gene-sequencing "chip," a credit-card-size device that can analyze more than 20 million base pairs at a time. The technique in 2004 helped researchers at Johnson & Johnson's pharmaceutical research-and-development arm to identify the bacterial target of a new antituberculosis drug. 

The method not only is 100 times faster and only a fraction of the cost of the earlier sequencing technique, but it also promises even faster and cheaper decoding in the future. That, in turn, opens the possibility that genetic analysis could be as commonplace as CAT scans and MRIs are today. 

"We've democratized the ability to sequence the genome," Mr. Rothberg says. 

In July, a team of researchers described in the scientific journal Nature how they used the process to unlock the entire DNA code of a kind of bacteria in only four hours. Earlier this year, the company began selling a commercial version of its equipment to leading genome researchers around the globe. 

Judges saw the technology as "potentially" or "clearly" revolutionary, although they noted that other groups are also working to increase the speed of gene sequencing. If these efforts continue to slash the time and cost of genetic analysis, says Anthony Komaroff, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, "they would make the promise of personalized medicine real in our lifetimes." 

Medical Devices 

Optimyst Systems Inc. of West Islip, N.Y., won for a new device for applying eye medicines that promises to be easier and less wasteful than traditional methods. The Optimyst device uses ultrasound to turn medications into a fine mist that can be sprayed into the eye, delivering medications more efficiently than eye droppers. The system, which still is in prototype, has been tested in small-scale clinical trials but hasn't yet been submitted for approval by the Food and Drug Administration. Still, judges liked its potential as a breakthrough replacement for eye drops, which are often misused. 

Energy and Power 

Solar Integrated Technologies Inc., Los Angeles, won for its solar roof system designed for large commercial and industrial buildings. The company combines a lightweight, flexible solar-energy system with a single-ply roofing membrane, enabling buildings to generate solar power from their flat rooftops. It has installed SmartRoof panels on a Coca-Cola bottling plant in Los Angeles and a Frito-Lay distribution warehouse in Torrance, Calif.; the Frito-Lay building's 70,000-square-foot roof is less than half covered with solar panels, but the system generates more than a quarter of the building's annual energy needs. 

Environment 

The MIT team's water-filtering system won in the environmental technology category. Though decidedly a low-tech solution, it was praised by judges for addressing an important problem in an original fashion. However, they also cautioned that even at $20, the price may be too high for the poor households it's targeted for. 

"Clean water is not sexy, and $20 a year won't make anyone rich," says Robert Drost, a scientist at Sun Microsystems Inc. and leader of the team that won last year's Gold award. "But third-world challenges in water, food, shelter, and basic medical care are much more important than innovations in first-world entertainment." 

Materials 

Ecology Coatings' line of nontoxic, easy-to-use finishes won in this category. The coatings' ability to cure without requiring costly and time-consuming heat lamps makes them useful in preparing paper, plastic and other materials that can't stand high temperatures. Judges found the technology appealing for its range of possible applications and its environmental friendliness. 

Network/Broadband/Internet 

Riverbed Technology Inc. of San Francisco won for its Steelhead network appliances, which speed the transfer of data and use of applications between remote offices and central servers. As many corporate computer users know, when emails, documents or spreadsheets are stored on a distant central computer, the wait to call up or change files can sometimes seem endless. Riverbed's appliance reduces these delays by storing redundant commands and data on local servers, slashing the amount of traffic that goes back and forth over the network and increasing overall network speed. 

The technology is a "clever solution to a universal problem that until now has not received a lot of attention," says one of the judges, Ms. Greene. 

Security (Facilities) 

ObjectVideo Inc., Reston, Va., won for software that monitors multiple feeds from security video cameras and can automatically detect potential threats, such as intruders. While video security systems have been widely deployed to monitor fences or watch for potential terrorist activities, it's difficult to use them to prevent illicit actions in progress; in most cases, the tapes are used to investigate incidents after they've happened -- witness the inquiry into this summer's London subway bombings. ObjectVideo's software can be programmed to alert security personnel of possible threats in real time. 

While noting that there are several companies addressing this problem, judge Asheem Chandna, a partner at Greylock Partners, a venture-capital firm in San Mateo, Calif., says ObjectVideo "appears to be a clear leader in this area." 

Security (Network) 

Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd. in Kawasaki, Japan, won for a device that can read the veins in the palm of a person's hand, an alternative to fingerprints as a unique identifier for confirming the person's identity. Fujitsu says this method, which uses its computer-vision technology, is better than traditional fingerprint readers because it doesn't require direct contact with the scanning device -- and is therefore more sanitary -- and because veins in the palm are more difficult to fake. The devices were first used commercially last year and have since been deployed in banks, for student IDs at a university and for residents of a condominium complex in Japan. 

Judges said the technology is an innovative and accurate way to guard against unauthorized computer use, though one judge says the hygiene concerns were "a bit exaggerated." Another judge, Peter Terwiesch, chief technology officer at ABB Ltd., adds, "It remains to be verified if the vein patterns are indeed different enough between human individuals to serve as a unique biometric identifier." 

Semiconductors 

Alien Technology was the winner in this category for its low-cost manufacturing technique for making RFID chips. Mr. Smith, the Alien founder, came up with the idea waiting for his wife at the chiropractor's office; playing with a child's game that required maneuvering small steel balls into tiny holes, he realized a similar method could be used to assemble small objects on pieces of silicon. The method was first used to build tiny lasers on silicon, but around 1999 he realized the technology could be used to reduce the cost of RFID chips. 

Judges said the cost savings the technology delivers will greatly expand RFID tags into new uses. The speed improvement alone "is a big leap," says Sophie Vandebroek, a judge and chief engineer at Xerox Corp. 

Software 

Agitar Software Inc., based in Mountain View, Calif., won here for its Agitator tool, which helps software developers find and fix bugs when writing new programs. Software writers typically have to scour for buggy code by poring over thousands of lines of code -- often after flaws show up while users are running the program. Agitator automatically puts software through a battery of stress tests; it also can examine partial programs by simulating the whole software system. 

Though Agitator works only with programs written in the Java programming language, the judges said it is an important advance in making error-free code writing more productive. 

Transportation 

QinetiQ, a defense- and security-technology company based in the United Kingdom, won for its Tarsier high-resolution radar system, which airports can use to detect potentially hazardous runway debris. 

The company says foreign objects on airport runways cause about $4 billion of aircraft damage every year, and metallic debris was blamed for the Paris Concorde crash in 2000 that killed 113 people. 

The Tarsier system, which can automatically detect objects as small as about two inches long in any weather conditions, was recently purchased for use by Vancouver International Airport in Canada. 

Although the technology itself isn't new, judges applauded its application to addressing a serious transportation problem. 

Wireless 

Freescale Semiconductor Inc., Austin, Texas, won for its efforts to bring to market the first consumer products using "ultrawideband" wireless technology, which promises to deliver audio, video and data at higher speeds, using less power than other wireless technologies. Freescale has demonstrated its chips in a prototype cellphone from Motorola Inc., which spun off Freescale in 2004. This summer, Chinese appliance maker Haier announced that it would use Freescale chips in a planned 37-inch LCD television that can receive signals wirelessly from a digital-media computer. 

Judges noted that there are several other companies racing to market with ultrawideband products. Still, they praised Freescale for helping bring to consumers a technology that, says Ms. Greene, "could lead to ubiquitous consumer deployment." 

--- 

Mr. Totty is a news editor for The Journal Report in San Francisco. He can be reached at michael.totty@wsj.com 

Document J000000020051024e1ao00002


More Like This

 Article 496 *******************    



Investment Soars In Firms Exploring Alternative Energy 

By Kathryn Kranhold 
428 words 
24 October 2005
The Wall Street Journal
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Venture-capital investments in companies developing environmentally friendly technology are growing amid stronger corporate demand for alternative energy sources and materials, according to a report to be released today. 

Cleantech Venture Network LLC, an Ann Arbor, Mich., research firm, says investments in companies advancing technologies for solar and wind power, energy-efficient materials and nanotechnology, among others, grew 21% to $704.6 million in the first half of the year, compared with $583.4 million in the year-earlier period. Venture-capital investment in clean technology is expected to reach $1.5 billion this year, a 25% increase over 2004, the firm said. 

The report estimates that environmental-related technologies will grab about 7% of overall venture funding this year, up from roughly 2% in 2001. 

Cleantech's research is based on broad venture-capital reports including PricewaterhouseCoopers/Thomson Venture Economics/National Venture Capital Association MoneyTree Survey, Thomson/Venture Economics Private Equity Week Newswire, Dow Jones & Co.'s VentureReporter and the firm's own database. 

Since 1999, Cleantech says roughly $7.3 billion has been invested in this market. The research firm estimates that as much as $8.5 billion will be invested in these technologies through 2009. The total includes only money invested in companies that develop technology; it doesn't include investments in clean-energy projects, such as wind farms. 

Nicholas Parker, Cleantech's chairman and co-founder, says environmentally friendly technologies are attracting more funding in part because of increased demand from corporations looking to reduce their own carbon emissions and find alternative energy sources. Emissions of carbon dioxide contribute to the so-called greenhouse effect and are blamed by many scientists for a recent rise in global temperatures. "Big companies are saying we have to get our act together on carbon," says Mr. Parker. 

Also driving venture-capital investments in this area, Mr. Parker says, was General Electric Co.'s announcement earlier this year that it hopes to double its revenue to $20 billion by 2010 from selling technologies that are environmentally cleaner. Mr. Parker says that statement indicates GE sees a huge market for the technologies and that the Fairfield, Conn., conglomerate will need suppliers and may look to buy start-ups. 

In May, GE said it also would double its own investment by 2010 to $1.5 billion in technologies such as wind turbines, solar energy and coal gasification, which reduces certain emissions in the burning of coal to produce electricity. GE's investments aren't counted in Cleantech's totals. 

Document J000000020051024e1ao0002z


More Like This

 Article 497 *******************    



Personal Finance

Range of Sectors Will be Covered By New ETFs 

By Jen Ryan Dow Jones Newswires 
345 words 
26 October 2005
The Wall Street Journal
D4
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

A new bundle of exchange-traded funds is making its debut. 

Today, PowerShares Capital Management LLC will launch eight ETFs -- baskets of securities that trade on an exchange like stocks -- that cover a range of sectors, some of which aren't yet represented by an ETF. PowerShares hopes the launch will help to round out its product menu. 

"Typically, what we try to do is continue to build out our offering platform so that we have [products] available that people expect us to have as a full-service ETF sponsor," PowerShares President Bruce Bond said. 

PowerShares, which already has a variety of specialized and industry-based ETFs, will have a total of 31 ETFs after today's launch. It will become the second-largest ETF provider behind Barclays Global Investors, which has 102 ETFs. But the No. 2 spot is likely to change as sponsors such as State Street Global Advisors and Vanguard Group, which both currently have 23 ETFs, continue to introduce new ETFs. 

Six of the PowerShares ETFs are based on the Dynamic Intellidex indexes, or "intelligent indexes" as they are often called, as these indexes seek to generate value above what you would get with standard indexes by selecting stocks based on investment merit and rebalance quarterly. These ETFs are the Building & Construction Portfolio, Energy Exploration & Production Portfolio, Insurance Portfolio, Oil & Gas Services Portfolio, Retail Portfolio and Utilities Portfolio. 

The other two ETFs are the Lux Nanotech Portfolio, based on the Lux index, and the Aerospace and Defense Portfolio, based on the Spade Defense Index. The indexes were chosen, Mr. Bond said, because they are specialists in those areas and would better identify the companies that should make up the index. 

The nanotech, building and construction and aerospace and defense sectors aren't currently represented by an ETF. "Nanotechnology is getting more and more in the investing public" as some people believe it is the new wave of technology, Mr. Bond said. 

Document J000000020051026e1aq0000f


More Like This

 Article 498 *******************    



From Red to Green; Paul Gilding once ran Greenpeace and fought Big Business. Now he works for some of the biggest companies in the world. 

Michael Freedman 
1,111 words 
31 October 2005
Forbes
142
Volume 176 Issue 9
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

Paul Gilding once ran Greenpeace and fought Big Business. Now he works for some of the biggest companies in the world. 

In his youth Paul Gilding was a scourge of Big Business and government. A high school dropout, the Australian railed in favor of aboriginal land rights and against apartheid. A Maoist labor union organizer, he also led protests against industrial manufacturers, directing vandals to plug their discharge pipes. By age 33 the hell-raiser was named executive director of Greenpeace International, the Amsterdam nonprofit. 

Today Gilding, now 46, makes his living working for some of the very companies he used to fight. He heads Ecos, a ten-person consulting firm that brings in $5 million a year helping such corporate icons as DuPont and Ford close the chasm between the corporate world and save-the-world environmentalists. "If you want to change the world," he says, "change it through the market." 

For this some former allies scorn him as a sellout, a practitioner of "greenwashing," who helps corporate polluters buy an environmentally correct image while pursuing darker objectives. Greenpeaceniks who defect to the corporate world often "trade on their reputation. That's definitely been the case with some of Paul Gilding's actions," says Sheldon Rampton of the Center for Media & Democracy in Madison, Wis. 

Gilding says his switch from protester to adviser grew out of an epiphany he had some years ago:Maybe the business guys aren't so evil, after all. He consults to corporate clients for fees that can run up to $1 million a year. His firm helped Insurance Australia Group find new revenue by selling risk-reduction services that cut claims and workplace accidents. Ecos worked with chemical titan DuPont, helping it craft a message on nanotechnology that would appeal to the greenies. It also helped DuPont parlay expertise in manufacturing safety into an expanded revenue source: a consulting business on safety. 

And at Ford Motor Ecos got the suits thinking about environmental "sustainability," prompting Ford to consider how much water is used in manufacturing. It was able to cut usage by 18% at a plant in Mexico. 

Gilding has met dozens of times with Ford's senior execs, including Chief Executive William Ford Jr., to explain how climate change and energy security might transform consumer demand. Ford had viewed these concerns as onerous regulatory issues, but Gilding preached that Ford could reach new markets by selling products that were better for the environment. When the brass said it was too costly to build greener cars, he countered that Toyota simply raised the price for its Prius hybrid and found consumers were willing to pay more for the feeling that they're doing good. 

Convinced, Ford accelerated its hybrid efforts and ultimately introduced this technology to the popular Ford Escape and Mercury Mariner. Last month Ford set plans to produce 250,000 hybrids annually by 2010, ten times as many as current production. Bruce Blythe, then head of corporate strategy, says, "The fact that Paul had been poacher-turned-gamekeeper had a lot of credibility." 

Gilding learned an early lesson in the dangers of ideology in the 1980s when he worked as a Maoist labor organizer in Australia. He quit after concluding the union was more focused on intimidation and enforcing its own beliefs than on protecting workers. He later enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force but spent his spare time protesting nuclear-armed ships coming into Sydney Harbour. That job ended, too; he was discharged by mutual agreement. 

In 1989 he was tapped by Greenpeace International to organize some of the first antibusiness protests in Australia, but he was conflicted when he discovered that he actually liked the senior executives who were supposed to be the bad guys. While running an assault on Imperial Chemical Industries in 1991, he got a call from Michael Deeley, head of its Australian operations. They set up a meeting, at which Deeley surprised his foe from Greenpeace by simply stating his goals rather than trying to talk Gilding into ending the protest. 

"When you have an enemy in a public conflict like that," says Gilding, "both sides tend to demonize each other. And when you have a relationship, it's harder to do that." By 1992 he had moved to Amsterdam to become executive director of Greenpeace, and he dismayed his colleagues with his almost pro-biz approach--he even wore a suit and tie to meetings with corporate execs. 

Gilding felt the movement had won its foremost battle: raising worldwide recognition of serious problems that had to be addressed. And he felt only business could marshal the brainpower and capital to do so. So in a controversial move he pushed Greenpeace to work with companies, effectively jettisoning its ideology of being the corporate watchdog. Greenpeace would have none of it--Gilding was forced to resign in a bitter split in 1994, 18 months after taking the job. 

"Greenpeace was saying, 'Wake up, wake up. We've got a problem,'" Gilding says. "And we're saying, 'Yeah, we've got a problem. What should we do about it?' And Greenpeace said, 'Wake up, wake up. We've got a problem.' And we're saying, 'Yeah, we heard you. What do we do about it?'" 

After a short sabbatical he started Ecos in his suburban Sydney living room, tapping the jargon-filled fad of "corporate social responsibility" and the notion of embracing environmentalism, philanthropy and social action for the good of shareholders. Yet Gilding eschews CSR, as it is known--"The reality is that most companies are doing it for p.r.," he says--and says companies instead should look at being green as a profit center. 

This gets him into trouble. Gilding has faced nasty accusations from some of his former allies, who claim he's moved to the dark side. Loukas Christodoulou, of the Oxford, England anticorporate group Corporate Watch, says hiring someone like Gilding could be a form of greenwashing. 

Companies frequently disagree with him, too, questioning the value of new green products or revenue sources when the science behind the environmental movement is uncertain. But the former protester takes a market approach, insisting the only way to improve the environment is to find ways to make a profit on it. Gilding suggests that companies that ignore environmentalism and consumer demands will pay in the end. "I don't want to feel holier than they are," he frequently says. "I just want to see them go broke." 

Document FB00000020051019e1av0000t


More Like This

 Article 499 *******************    



The Control Of Light; Edison made a good start with artificial light, but he missed something: nanotechnology. 

Scott Woolley 
1,287 words 
31 October 2005
Forbes
70
Volume 176 Issue 9
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

Thomas Edison made a good start, but he really didn't get the whole picture with artificial light. He missed the nanotechnology angle. 

Walking outside into the bright San Diego sunlight, Gregory Heinzinger flips open a pair of cell phones. The glare renders the screen of the first, a regular phone, unreadable. But the other phone's display, which uses the latest in nanotechnology, remains stunningly vibrant even in the sun, as bright and clear as a typical cell phone is in a dark room. 

The new phone screen, built by a company called Iridigm that was acquired a year go by Qualcomm for $170 million, is a sign of the dramatic leaps being made in our ability to manipulate light. The new Qualcomm displays, due in regular phones and handhelds within two years, employ microscopic mirrors that move just a few hundred nanometers to reflect precise wavelengths of light, generating up to millions of colors instantly. By recycling existing light, the new displays operate with a tiny fraction of the battery power guzzled by traditional liquid crystal displays (LCDs), which are often the single largest power drain in a cell phone. 

Heinzinger, who oversees display technology at Qualcomm, says that the new screens are perfect for the coming era of video cell phones. They'll help extend battery life by one-thirdfrom today's standards. In a dark room they will still have to rely on a battery-powered light, but will work just fine in a decently lit office. "LCDs fight the sun," says Heinzinger. "We use it." 

Many of the recent technological developments involving light have to do with its use in storing or transmitting information (as in DVDs and fiber-optic cables). Now it's time for scientists to resume the work that Thomas Edison began, to illuminate the world for the human eye. 

Mark Miles, an MIT-trained engineer who invented the Qualcomm cell phone screen, drew inspiration from the iridescence of butterfly wings and peacock plumage. Manipulating light to create beauty and thus attract mates is an old idea in nature. The animals' array of hues are the result of a clever evolutionary trick, tiny bubblelike cavities that reflect specific wavelengths of light. 

By 2001 Miles had raised $18million to develop a micromechanical array of pixels that flutter open and then close to reflect colorful ambient light (see box, below) the way butterflies do. Eventually, he says, such biomimicry technology will take over the "skins" of everyday items like cars and laptops. "You can make all these things dynamic displays, not just to convey information but to look better," he says. "In the same way you download a ring tone, you will be able to download a look." 

Besides looks, light science offers the prospect of efficiency--millions of barrels of oil saved. Lighting gobbles 22% of the electricity used in this country and bulbs are, for the most part, horribly inefficient at converting electricity into visible wavelengths. Edison's incandescent bulb runs at an efficiency of scarcely 2%. More precisely, it converts a watt of input power into only 10 to 15 lumens of illumination, whereas if every bit of the juice were turned into green photons (the color to which the eye is most sensitive), the output would be 683 lumens. 

Fluorescents can do 50 to 100 lumens per watt, sodium vapor lamps as much as 180. Newly promising: light-emitting diodes, or LEDs. These devices, which contain semiconductors, emit a specific color based on their chemistry. Red and green LEDs have been around since the 1960s, but the introduction of blue LEDs in the late 1990s created the possibility of blending them into white light. Five years ago LEDs couldn't even match the efficiency of Edisonian bulbs. Now they are up to 45 lumens per watt. The Department of Energy expects LEDs to reach 150 lumens in six years; many LED scientists expect the number to be even higher. The light will also be far more pleasing to the eye than fluorescent light. 

Traffic lights in dozens of U.S. cities have already swapped out regular bulbs for long-lasting LEDs. Qantas Airlines, the Australian carrier, has installed LEDlighting in its first- and business-class cabins, to soothe and refresh passengers on 20-hour-plus trips. Wal-Mart now lights some of its freezers with LEDs, which run cooler than regular bulbs. 

E. Fred Schubert, a professor of engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, is working on making LEDs smart enough to communicate. Since they have the ability to turn on and off rapidly, they can convey information to remote sensors in a sort of light-speed Morse code, while appearing to the human eye to be unblinking. Stoplights could warn a car if its driver is about run a red light; a brake light on the car in front of you could alert a sensor in your car to an impending collision faster than your eye could warn your foot to hit the brake. 

"Edison asked: 'How can I create light?' Now we are asking: 'What kind of light should we create?' It's a very different question," says Schubert. 

A company called Sunlight Direct has already found the perfect light source--the sun. Its system ships real solar rays indoors, without passing along the sun's heat and harmful ultraviolet rays. A curved mirror located on the roof and linked to a global-positioning satellite tracks the sun's location. The mirror focuses sunlight into a bundle of fiber-optic cables, which carry the light indoors. 

Sunlight Direct Chief Executive Duncan Earl says his new system is far more efficient than lights drawing solar power from photovoltaic cells. These convert photons to electricity and electricity back to photons, wasting 98% of the sunlight's original energy. "That's a real shame. If we could just bring that daylight in directly, we could offset a lot of that energy usage," says Earl, who first helped develop his company's technology at the Oak Ridge National Laboratories. His system can deliver 50% of the sun's light indoors, though it starts to peter out after traveling through 30 feet of fiber-optic cable. Wal-Mart plans to test the new light source in its McKinney, Tex. store. 

The big stumbling block is cost:Right now a single sunlight collector that can illuminate 1,000 square feet is around $24,000. Utility savings, even in a place like Hawaii that combines bright sunlight with stiff electricity costs, would only be $3,000 or so a year, meaning it would take eight years to pay back the original investment. Earl says that the costs of the system will drop to $12,000 by next year. 

People naturally prefer sunlight to artificial light, Earl points out, especially retailers, since bad light can make merchandise appear off-color. Most people simply never notice how poorly lit most of their world is, says Earl, and will be pleasantly surprised by the coming improvements. "This is better than any light you can buy," he brags. 


Artificial Butterfly
   

Qualcomm's latest cell phone display borrows from nature to produce crisp images even in harsh sunlight, while only sipping battery juice. Its Imod screens, due out next year, are made of an array of thousands of subpixels (see below), each dedicated to reflecting red, green or blue. When the voltage is changed, a gap opens under the pixel's surface, allowing light to bounce off a reflective substrate. Which wavelength escapes depends on the width of the gap. When the gap closes up, the pixel turns black. 

Document FB00000020051019e1av0000k


More Like This

 Article 502 *******************    



Trends (A Special Report): Venture Capital --- Where the Bets Are 

By Ann Grimes 
1,877 words 
21 November 2005
The Wall Street Journal
R4
English
(Copyright (c) 2005, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

THE TECHNOLOGY world is revving up again as venture capitalists seek out a new batch of young start-ups they hope will become the next Yahoo or eBay. 

Through the third quarter, venture capitalists have poured some $16.2 billion into 1,605 deals, according to VentureOne, an industry tracker owned by Dow Jones & Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal. That's a far cry from the $95 billion that flowed into start-ups at the height of the tech boom five years ago. But it's on par with the $21.5 billion invested in 2004 and in keeping with the industry's historical norms. 

This time around, the VCs aren't looking just to Internet start-ups or biotech firms for hot growth. Many are exploring new markets overseas, as well as underserved sectors such as alternative energy. Many also are placing their bets on more mature companies -- start-ups that weathered the tech downturn and now boast a cool new product or, better yet, a profit. 

Here's a look at some trends playing out in the venture-capital world. 

1. THE CHINA STRATEGY 

Venture capitalists got a wake-up call this summer when China's version of Google -- Baidu.com Inc. -- went public and saw its stock price more than quadruple on opening day. Baidu made clear that despite considerable risk, an immature capital market and regulatory flux, start-up opportunities in China can't be ignored, especially as U.S.-trained entrepreneurs head back home to start businesses. 

As a result, many venture-capital firms that usually only like to back start-ups close to home are developing China strategies. Some, like DCM-Doll Capital Management, have formed partnerships with Chinese venture-capital firms that can clear regulatory hurdles and provide a road map to the hottest entrepreneurs in Shanghai and Beijing. Others, like Accel Partners, have teamed up with Asia-savvy VCs like Beijing-based IDG Venture Investment Inc. Still others, like Gary Rieschel, a former Silicon Valley VC, have moved to China to set up shop. 

To minimize risk, venture capitalists sometimes are backing hybrid companies: those with operations in both Silicon Valley and Beijing. That strategy, they say, ensures that entrepreneurs can expand their market while protecting their intellectual property -- by keeping it in-house instead of sharing it with a local partner. 

2. CLEAN TECH 

With energy prices on the rise and policy makers groping for solutions to the problem of fossil fuels, a new crop of venture capitalists are going green. Their dollars are funding everything from solar-power sheaths that roll out on rooftops to wind-driven turbines to nanotechnology. 

Alternative-energy technology will likely grab 10% of all venture dollars by 2009, up from about 2% four years ago, according to research firm Cleantech Venture Network. Some $700 million went into alternative energy in the first half of the year, up 21% from a year earlier, the firm says. Venture investments in the sector are likely to total $1.5 billion for the year, up 25% from 2004. 

"The energy and water markets are starving for new, advanced technology-oriented solutions," says Ira Ehrenpreis of Technology Partners, a Palo Alto, Calif., venture firm with a clean-tech focus. Clean tech, he says, "remains one of the underserved areas of investment in the venture asset class today." 

But not for long. What once was a niche market populated by unknowns now is attracting big-time players like New Enterprise Associates and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, perhaps Silicon Valley's best-known venture firm. Kleiner is backing several energy-related companies, including a developer of new fuel-cell technology. Meanwhile, another brand-name Silicon Valley firm, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, announced in October that it will launch a $150 million clean-tech-focused fund called DFJ Element. 

3. DIGITAL LIVING ROOM 

It's the 21st century, and the Jetsons' time may have finally come. VCs are chasing start-ups that get all your entertainment gadgets to work together, as well as creating appliances that respond to remote and automated control. Fueling these breakthroughs are two huge developments: the maturing of home networking gear and the rapid deployment of broadband services, which speed up the delivery of music and video files. 

One of the biggest players in this sector is Intel Capital, which hopes to repeat its success with Wi-Fi networking investments. Tapping a $200 million fund dedicated to the digital home, Intel Capital has funded more than a dozen start-ups that create everything from chips for digital TV sets to software that supports home networks. Other players funding similar start-ups: Walt Disney Co. and Motorola Inc. 

4. NEW KIDS ON THE BLOCK 

During the tech boom, it seemed everyone wanted to be a VC. Nearly 1,000 venture firms were actively investing in tech start-ups. Now? Through the first three quarters of this year, only 608 firms were actively investing, a drop of 42% from 2000, according to VentureOne. It's likely that many more, especially newer firms with dicey track records, will fold. 

And yet the industry is replenishing itself. A new crop of VCs have hung out shingles to try their hand at the game, and a select few are getting a good response from blue-chip endowments like Harvard, Stanford and Yale. Ever eager to buoy their returns, managers there are backing a handful of hot firms trying out new investment strategies, often in underserved regions like the Pacific Northwest. Among them: Ignition Partners, staffed by several former Microsoft Corp. executives, and Maveron LLC, co-founded by Howard Schultz, chairman of Starbucks Corp. Both are based in Seattle. 

5. ROCK STARS 

What do Colin Powell and U2's Bono have in common? 

Last August, Gen. Powell made waves when one of Silicon Valley's best-known venture firms, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, announced he joined the firm as a part-time venture partner. Gen. Powell adds to Kleiner's star power and gives the firm a seasoned hand when it comes to navigating Washington's ways and targeting hot tech spots across the globe. 

Meanwhile, another Silicon Valley shop, Elevation Partners, signed up Bono. The firm, which is starting to invest its first, $1.8 billion megafund, is targeting digital-media deals -- and that's where Bono comes in as an adviser and partner. 

6. WEB 2.0 

A new crop of Internet companies are rising from the ashes of notorious burnouts like Pets.com and Webvan -- and venture capitalists are only too eager to help them along, pumping $7.6 billion into the Internet sector in this year's first three quarters, up from $6.5 billion a year earlier. 

So what makes this crop of Web sites a better investment than the previous ones? For one thing, online advertising has finally taken off. Start-ups can now use ad dollars to fuel Web sites that offer free services such as blogs and social networks, which allow people to introduce themselves online through mutual friends. 

Facebook, for instance, connects college students across the country through social networks at schools, while Mania TV! broadcasts its own television shows over the Internet. Both sites raised $12 million in initial funding recently, an unheard-of amount even 18 months ago. 

Other hot start-ups include RealTravel, which uses blogs and social networks to personalize travel by letting people share experiences and advice. Zvents is a local search engine that guides consumers to new activities. 

7. OLDER AND WISER 

Even though hot Internet companies are attracting plenty of dough at a very early stage, many venture capitalists are looking for more-seasoned bets where they can put bigger chunks of cash to work. 

After getting burned in the tech bust, and with fund raising up 16% over the third quarter of 2004, these investors are putting their money into more-mature tech companies that weathered the downturn and now have products and customers. 

So far this year, the bulk of venture capital, 78%, has gone into later-stage deals like Vonage Holdings Corp., an Internet-based telephone service that has raised over $400 million in venture capital. 

8. ADOPTING ORPHANS 

In the search for seasoned investments, industry veterans Terry Garnett and David Helfrich have launched a new firm focusing on venture buyouts. Their goal: to find "orphan" technologies and products that big companies have developed but abandoned -- such as Wyse Technology Inc.'s computer terminals -- and spin them out into separate companies. The deals represent a cheaper, safer way to find ready-for-market products, the logic goes. 

9. TELECOM COMEBACK 

EBay Inc.'s acquisition of London-based Skype Technologies SA, a deal valued at around $4 billion, has focused renewed attention on the hard-hit telecom sector. Skype's service enables people to talk over the Internet free of charge, by using voice over Internet protocol technology, or VOIP. Customers are signing up in droves. 

Many VCs got badly burned on telecom deals. Some $15 billion went down the drain in the past five years as telecom failed to meet big promises. But activity appears to be on the upswing as carriers -- eager to battle it out with cable companies and cellular providers -- up their capital spending. 

By and large, venture capitalists continue to pump money into old companies they've nurtured through the slump. Besides VOIP, developments in fiber optics, broadband access and video also are driving spending. 

The biggest venture deal in the third quarter was in telecom: Investors plunked $150 million into San Francisco-based FiberTower Corp., which makes wireless equipment for cellphone towers. Another start-up to watch: Force10 Networks Inc. The Milpitas, Calif., company makes high-speed switches and routers used in large data centers. The company has raised $300 million in venture capital and is planning an IPO. 

10. LATE EXITS 

Every VC goes into an investment looking for an "exit": a merger, sale or initial public offering. The good news for venture capitalists is that 2005 could turn out to be the best year for mergers and acquisitions since 2000. 

Corporate buyers paid $21 billion to acquire 255 venture-backed companies through the third quarter, compared with $23 billion in all of 2004. Venture-backed public offerings are still slow, but starting to show signs of life. After a rough first six months, 16 venture-backed start-ups went public in the third quarter, compared with 13 for the previous six months. 

The bad news for venture capitalists is that it's still taking a long time to reach an exit. On average, the companies that were bought have battled through the tech downturn and, as a result, are older, an average of 5.5 years -- the highest in a decade, according to VentureOne. As for IPOs, the start-ups that went public in the third quarter averaged 5.8 years old. That's down from six years in 2004. 

--- 

Ms. Grimes is bureau chief for Dow Jones VentureWire in Palo Alto, Calif. She can be reached at ann.grimes@dowjones.com. VentureWire reporters Michelle Tsai, Russ Garland, John W. Verity and Emily Westhafer contributed to this article. 

Document J000000020051121e1bl0001r


More Like This

 Article 503 *******************    



Bright Spot; Buyout king Wilbur Ross is putting new life into the moribund U.S. textile industry. 

Mark Tatge 
1,951 words 
28 November 2005
Forbes
194
Volume 176 Issue 11
English
(c) 2005 Forbes Inc. 

Buyout king Wilbur Ross is putting new life into the moribund U.S. textile industry. 

At 10 A.M. the mercury has climbed to 95 degrees in the northern foothills of Mexico's Sierra Madre mountains. No sweat for the handful of workers inside the cavernous air-conditioned Cone Denim plant on the outskirts of Parras de la Fuente, where Sulzer Ruti weaving machines shoot white thread six times a second across a roll of indigo-dyed warp yarn stretching 6 feet wide. The deafening machinery rattles 24/7, every day weaving enough denim for 70,000 pairs of pants. Operating costs for the plant co-owner, International Textile Group of Greensboro, N.C., trail those of U.S. mills by 25% (before debt service). Defect rates run a puny 1%. Most orders can be filled within 48 hours. 

Five hours south of the U.S. border, Parras is hardly a textile mecca. The remote farming town is better known for producing wine, brandy and rebels. Francisco Indalecio Madero (1873-1913), who staged a coup in 1911 to become Mexico's president, was born here. Ninety-four years later industrialist Wilbur L. Ross is launching his own revolution. 

The owlish Ross is a well-known agglomerator of businesses producing steel, coal and now auto parts. But he also wants to turn the troubled U.S. textile industry inside out. Using the Parras Cone plant as a manufacturing template, his ITG is building a global network, forming partnerships with suppliers, licensing technology and developing specialty markets abroad. Ross aims to be the cheapest, quickest, highest-quality and most flexible clothmaker on the planet. To make it worth his while, he is merging the commodity business of unfinished cloth with the traditionally separate enterprise of producing finished goods (apparel and home furnishings). Most radical of all, Ross wants to capitalize on the developing world not merely as a place of cheap labor but, ultimately, as a source of new customers for fabrics that will become jeans and bedspreads. 

If ever there was an area of commerce in need of help, it's the two-century-old business of industrialized textile manufacture. What remains of the American industry relies on an archaic, inefficient confederation of mills, unions, middlemen and contractors, all knit together by a tangle of tariffs and textile quotas. Relaxation of trade restrictions has led to a flood of imports, especially from China (see story, Ghandi, Industrialized). since 1997, 367 U.S. plants have closed, resulting in the loss of 440,000 jobs; the remaining mills operate at 50% of capacity, and only 4% of the apparel sold in America is sewn here. 

When it comes to takeovers, the lousier the prospect, the better for a guy like Ross, 67. Armed with $4.5 billion in private equity, he has plowed $700 million into revitalizing bankrupt textile companies since 2002. "We saw the mills had way too much debt, a lot were filing for bankruptcy and we knew the clock was ticking away with quotas expiring," Ross says. Bankrupt Burlington Industries was his first target. The maker of home furnishings, apparel, jacquard fabrics and custom printing collapsed in 2003 under $1.1 billion of bank and junk-bond debt. But it went for a relative song--$450 million, including assumed liabilities. Ross merged it with the world's largest denim maker, bankrupt Cone Denim, acquired last year for $90 million, forming ITG. 

Ross typically buys up 25% to 50% of a target company's debt, at a steep discount, as it's skidding toward bankruptcy, using capital from eight funds the WL Ross Co. manages. Once it's in Chapter 11, Ross gets himself elected head of the creditors committee and begins muscling management and unsecured lenders. Postbankruptcy, Ross invests new equity capital from his own pocket. This approach has worked well at ITG, whose total debt is $50 million, roughly 10% of capitalization: This year the holding company should earn $80 million pretax on revenue of $900 million. Denim accounts for half or more of ITG's earnings and 40% of sales; the other 60% comes from home furnishings, synthetics, worsted wool, coatings, dyeing and fabric printing. 

The son of a New Jersey school teacher and a judge, Ross pondered a fiction-writing career as an English lit undergrad at Yale. But during a summer job on Wall Street, he got hooked on numbers. He completed an M.B.A. at Harvard and landed at Rothschild Inc., where he spent two dozen years fixing spectacular failures, Eastern Airlines and LTV among them. As the millennium approached, Ross got Rothschild to sell him control of a $200 million fund he was already managing and raised another $250 million from investors. WL Ross opened its doors on Apr. 1, 2000. One of his first ventures seemed appropriately foolhardy: buying busted U.S. steelmakers. But, with restructuring and help from George Bush's temporary 30% tariff on imports, the bet paid off. Ross sold International Steel Group last year to Indian steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal for $4.5 billion, netting Ross $260 million. (Most of the proceeds went to Ross' partners and to public investors who had bought stock in the company when it went public.) 

Like steel, the textile industry has suffered from high labor costs. But instead of persuading unions to accept lower benefits and shoving pension liabilities onto the government, Ross decided to take his manufacturing business overseas. In unionized Mexico hourly rates run $4 (one-quarter the average of textile workers in the U.S.), in Guatemala $2 and in China 85 cents. But with significantly lower wages come quality problems. Customers like Levi Strauss, the Gap and Eddie Bauer require fabrics that meet rigorous color, consistency and finishing standards. 

It's one thing to meet those high demands in Mexico. The 640,000-square-foot Parras Cone plant all but eliminates imperfections caused by human hands. Computers and optical scanners more or less run the factory, where 490-pound bales of west Texas cotton are spun into yarn, dyed with indigo and woven into denim, knocking 75 cents off what usually costs $3 a linear yard to produce in the U.S. 

But achieving such quality is a vexing problem across the globe in Vietnam. Drawn there by hourly wages of 40 to 45 cents, Ross recently became a 51% partner with the $1 billion (sales) Vietnam National Textile Garment Group, a.k.a. Vinatex, in Hanoi. ITG has agreed to build a $100 million denim-twill plant; today Vietnam imports its fabrics, which tend to be of mixed quality. Vinatex will be the exclusive company sewing for Cone Denim in Vietnam. The idea is to produce goods for the mass market four to six months before the start of the selling season. Shorter runs of specialty denim, commanding premium prices, will be made in North Carolina, Mexico or Guatemala. 

Cheap wages, high-quality fabrics, proximity to customers--all these have pushed ITG deep into Latin America. Such lures have also turned Ross, a determined protectionist when it came to steel, into an ardent free trader, lobbying to lift textile tariffs and quotas in what eventually became the Central American Free Trade Agreement. With Cafta in hand, he is negotiating to buy land for a $100 million denim plant in Guatemala, Nicaragua or El Salvador. All three governments have offered him deals that would eliminate $2 million a year in income taxes, value-added taxes and tariffs for up to a decade. Cafta eliminates 16 cents of tariff on every dollar of textiles and apparel sent to the U.S., saves $3 million to $4 million in freight costs and shortens lead times by ten days, says Carlos Arias, executive vice president of Koramsa in Guatemala City, one of the largest denim-sewing shops in the world. 

Arias figures that Koramsa and Cone Denim can get a larger slice of the $12 billion (retail) U.S. denim market. That segment is growing 8% a year, twice the rate of the overall apparel market, according to NPD Group, a Port Washington, N.Y. market research firm. One way to get more business is to cut production time, and Cone Denim Chief Executive John L. Bakane thinks partnerships with neighboring sewing shops like Koramsa can slice the average four-month new-product cycle--from a test pair of pants to a full run--in half. 

Streamlining the supply chain is only half the battle. Ross is counting on new and specialty lines to rejuvenate profits whacked by low-cost imports. One area: uniforms for the U.S. armed forces, airline and hotel workers and police. Last year Ross bought Cleyn & Tinker, a Canadian maker of worsted woolens and uniforms, and moved production to Mexico. ITG now has uniform sales of $100 million and stakes claim to being the largest U.S. uniform maker. 

Another approach is to produce higher-margin fabrics. At Parras Cone, Ross is investing $25 million for 12 lines of ring spinners, which twist yarn by passing it through a ring guide that rotates around a spindle. Ring-spun yarn produces a soft, smooth and strong yarn that commands top dollar in finished goods. Ordinary jeans leaving Mexico typically cost $12 (cloth is $3 to $4, the rest is labor, sewing and finishing), wholesale for $24 and retail at $48. But a pair of pants made with ring-spun yarn and speciality finishes can command $150 to $200, producing a gross margin of 66% to 75% at retail. Such jeans aren't ready for sale until they're ripped to shreds--as they literally are at the Original Mexican Jean Co., where workers sandblast denim with high-pressure air hoses and go at it with knives, scrapers, chemical washes, even shotgun blasts. 

The really cool stuff, with potential worldwide reach, will come from non-woven fabrics made up of microscopic carbon polymers. Nano-Tex of Emeryville, Calif., owned by WL Ross, and ITG's labs in Burlington, N.C. are developing materials that don't burn, that neutralize dangerous microbes, absorb smoke and chemicals, and ward off insects--promising technology for the medical and military establishments. Some nanotech applications are already being sold: shirts, ties, pants and mattresses that repel stains, wrinkles, moisture and odors. "Wilbur wants to help people sell garments," says Peter McGrath, executive vice president of sourcing at J.C. Penney. "He gets what it is all about." 

And not just for American customers. In China, apparel spending among urban women is growing at 13% a year, according to A.T. Kearney. No wonder Ross has been prowling for opportunities--investing $50 million for a 51% piece of a new denim mill in Jiaxing and $20 million to build a dyeing and finishing plant in Hangzhou, both in Zhejiang Province; licensing the Burlington name to the China Ting Group, which will make window treatments and bedding; searching for a partner to start manufacturing synthetic fabrics for sportswear in western China. 

Ross sees no risk of overexpansion, mostly because of China's thirst for Western goods. Chinese consumer spending is expected to grow at an annual rate of 18% until 2014. Two of Cone Denim's biggest customers are waking up. The Gap is exploring the idea of franchising in China. Levi Strauss is playing coy about its plans but is looking to Japan, where customers wait hours for vintage Levi 501s to go on sale, as a hoped-for model for China. Says a Levi spokesman:"They line up like it's a rock concert." 

Document FB00000020051114e1bs0001h


More Like This

 Article 504 *******************    


Investing

Stocks to Sink Your Teeth Into Dental-supply companies are riding the aging baby-boomer wave, without pesky pricing problems and regulatory issues. 

Corey Hajim 
764 words 
28 November 2005
Fortune
U.S. Edition
258
English
© 2005 Time Incorporated. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved. 

[This article contains a chart. Please see a hard copy or pdf.] 

Spending more time at your dentist lately? You're not alone. A recent study by economists at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimates that in 2005, Americans will shell out $84 billion for dental care, more than double what they spent in 1993-- and that figure will grow 6.3% to 6.9% annually through 2014, when total outlays will reach $147 billion. That trend may be tough on your wallet, but it's good news for dental-supply companies like Dentsply and Sybron. 

One reason we're paying more for dental care is that we're living longer--and keeping our teeth. Another is that there are more things dentists can do to make teeth look good. In the early 1970s, according to government statistics, about 46% of people ages 65 to 74 had lost all their teeth. Twenty years later that figure dropped to less than 29%. "People know they will live longer and are going to great lengths to keep their natural teeth," says Floyd Pickrell Jr., CEO of Sybron. That means regular visits to the dentist not only for the basic "drill and fill" but for more complex procedures like implants, caps, veneers, root canals, and orthodontics. 

The dental-supply business is "beautifully boring," says Suey Wong, an analyst at Robert W. Baird in Milwaukee. That's because it has many of the same growth drivers as the broader health-care sector--but not all the reimbursement, managed care and pricing issues. It's a corner of the health-care industry that offers "solid, consistent growth," says Wong. "All of the benefits of med tech without the headaches." 

Dental-supply companies have also proved to be fairly recession resistant. Pickrell says he's never seen a downturn, and even during the big recession in 1991, "right through it you saw growth. It is one of the last things to go." Another positive is the potential for consolidation. The industry is highly fragmented, with the two largest companies accounting for only about 20% of the overall market. 

Dentsply (XRAY, $57) is the industry's biggest player, with a $4.5 billion market cap and an estimated 17% market share. CEO Gary Kunkle Jr. cites the company's scale as a key advantage: "If we buy a smaller company, we can put its products into our network and be in 120 countries in the next month." Indeed, while the company has been growing internally, acquisitions have been a key part of its strategy. Dentsply has done more than 30 acquisitions in the past decade, and, with about $5 a share in cash on hand, it can do a lot more. Acquisitions and internal innovation have helped Dentsply churn out a stream of new products. Last year, for example, the company introduced more than 25, including Oraqix, a noninjectable anesthetic gel, and BioPure, a cleansing agent used during root canals. That kind of innovation is essential, considering that in 2004, 40% of Dentsply's $1.7 billion in revenue came from items introduced in the past five years--even though most have annual sales of less than $25 million. 

Sybron (SYD, $43) is a smaller company (market cap: $1.7 billion) that also uses acquisitions as part of its growth strategy. Pickrell says he is always looking at four or five potential companies to buy and would like to add two to four percentage points of sales growth through deals each year. New products are crucial for Sybron, as well. It launched more than 20 offerings in the past year, most aimed at helping dentists become more productive. "It is not a business that has demand issues," says Pickrell. "It has capacity issues." Pickrell sees significant promise for Sybron's Damon 3, a new orthodontic device, and Premise nanocomposite, a natural- colored material used in restoration work. 

Both Dentsply and Sybron are expected to post low double-digit profit gains next year. They aren't cheap, trading at 19 times and 21 times estimated 2006 earnings, respectively, vs. 15 for the S&P 500. But both have strong positions in a booming market, and Wong, for one, thinks their P/Es will increase from here, "given their moves into specialty areas with higher margins and accelerating growth." Don't forget to floss! 

PHOTO: JOHN MUGGENBORG CHART: FORTUNE CHART / SOURCE: BLOOMBERG Dental health 


Document FORTU00020051114e1bs0001p


More Like This

