
Article 1

This then led us to address constraints on India's growth and how our 
cooperation could ameliorate this situation. Two bottlenecks that came up 
immediately were infrastructure and energy. We undertook to enhance our 
investment climate and expand opportunities for foreign participation in 
infrastructure projects. We have launched, as you know, an Indo-U.S. forum whose 
recommendations will be relevant in this regard.

On the energy challenge, we have embarked on a broad-based energy dialogue that 
encompasses clean coal, new technologies and renewable energy, civilian nuclear 
energy, oil and gas, and energy efficiency issues. Each of these areas has made 
some progress, and we hope to move towards formalizing specific projects in the 
coming months.

Our cooperation in science and technology also received the attention it 
deserves. Interestingly, the vast majority of initiatives currently underway 
have, in one way or the other, a strong technology underpinning. We have since 
signed a framework agreement in October 2005 that includes, for the first time, 
an IPR protocol. The High Technology Cooperation Group that met recently in New 
Delhi has also helped take forward cooperative processes in biotechnology, 
nanotechnology, information technology and defense. Space has emerged as a major 
area of cooperation where Indian skills and comparative costs make a strong case 
for an expanded Indo-U.S. partnership. We have ambitious plans in the commercial 
space arena, and the conclusion of a space launch agreement currently under 
discussion would be an important step.

In dual-use technology I am confident that the more liberal and predictable 
licensing regime that emerged from the NSSP would make itself felt fully in our 
strategic commerce. Demands will surely grow from an economy that is putting and 
increasing premium on efficiency.

Quite understandably, it is the nuclear agreement that made the headlines on 
July 18 and has dominated the discourse on Indo-U.S. relations since. The debate 
so far does not appear to have done full justice to the real issues involved. 
Much of the argumentation has revolved around the agreement being a radical 
departure from the NPT regime. Frankly, this is missing the woods for the trees. 
If we go by NPT concepts and objectives rather than this littler text, then it 
is difficult to make a case against the July 18 agreement. Bringing India into 
the fold is not only a gain for international nonproliferation efforts, but 
indispensable for the emergence of a new global consensus on nonproliferation in 
response to current challenges. Any objective assessment of efforts to counter 
WMD proliferation would surely put a high value on India's participation

*******************

Article 2

DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT PURCHASES

The conferees agree to provide a total of $58,248,000 for the Defense Production 
Act Purchases appropriation instead of $28,573,000 as proposed by the House and 
$68,573,000 as proposed by the Senate.

The conference agreement on items addressed by either the House or the Senate is 
as follows:



EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS [In thousands of dollars]

House

Conference

Amplifying fluorescent polymer based lED detection devices $2,000 $1,200 
Flexible aerogel material supplier initiative 2,000 $5,000 2,500

ALON and spinel optical ceramics 3,000 1,500 Thermal battery industrial base 
infrastructure 3,000 2,550

Hydrogen ion implantation equipment 4,000 2,800 Ceramic armor manufacturing to 
protect armed forces 5,000 3,500 Advanced metal composite process 8,000 6,800

Miniature compressor development 5,000 2,500 POSS nanotechnology engineering 
scale-up initiative 7,500 6,375 Reactive plastic COG52 absorbent production 
capacity 7,500 3,750

Read out integrated circuit manufacturing improvement 4,000 2,400 High 
performance coatings production initiative 3,868 3,868 3,868 Beryllium supply 
industrial base 6,000 9,000 7,800

High performance batteries and fuel cells production initiative 5,800 6,800 
6,800 Boron fiber production initiative 1,000

Next generation radiation hardened microprocessors 2,905 2,905 2,905

Total 28,573 68,573 58,248

*******************

Article 3


DIVISION C DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Title XXXI Department of Energy National Security Programs

Overview

Items of Special Interest

Disposition of weapons-usable plutonium at Savannah River, South Carolina

Nanotechnology Enterprise Development Center

National laboratory work on force protection technologies

Legislative Provisions Adopted

Subtitle A National Security Programs Authorizations

National Nuclear Security Administration (sec. 3101)

Defense environmental cleanup (sec. 3102)

Other defense activities (sec. 3103)

Defense nuclear waste disposal (sec. 3104)

*******************

Article 4

WYDEN: You start.

EMANUEL: Well, look. I believe reforming the code is important whether it's an election year or non-election year. I ran on this when I first ran for Congress in 2002. I've introduced legislation according like that.

I think the tax code's broken. I think when $311 billion goes uncollected, mainly by high income, and the burden falls further and further on top of the middle class, and you have a growing deficit even in good times or bad, it's clear that the tax code is not working and not functioning, as I said earlier, for middle-class families.

I think you have to have a pro-growth agenda, which is what Democrats have, whether it's investing in education, whether it's investing in our energy independence and health care, technology for the future and job industries for the future, which is why I talked about an institute for science and engineering to (inaudible) -- what the NIH has done for health care, we would do for nanotechnology, energy independence, engineering training.

The tax code is part of that. We saw, when Bradley-Gephardt simplification and condensing of definitions and deductions and credits -- it was a great spurt to economic growth. We think we have a similar plan that eliminates a lot of the credits and deductions and itemizations, et cetera, that inherently tried to influence economic behavior.

Simplification, fairness across the board, breakdown in definitions so we have a less -- what I would say, working around the tax code, rather than have a tax code that, I think, frees up a lot of energy and determination to do economic growth rather than figure out economic activity by the tax code. I think that's a big mistake.


*******************

Article 5

Senator Lieberman and Senator Ensign brought up the number of engineers and technologists and scientists. Well, why do engineers matter? It's not just numbers, it's that the engineers are the ones who design and develop the new innovations, the intellectual property and the inventions of the future.

We are matriculating and engineers at anywhere from 50,000 to 60,000 a year. That seems like a lot, but China, India -- gosh, those countries are five, six, seven times as many. In fact, out of the engineers in our engineering schools in this country, it's estimated that a third to half of them are from overseas, which is fine.

I want America to be the magnet for the best minds in the world. But our trends are this way -- India is like this; China is like this -- in an increase. And I just came from India and China and they are determined and they are trying to get more engineers. They're like George Steinbrenner and the New York Yankees in trying to get the best nanotechnology engineers, particularly in the nano-tubes, and the material...

LIEBERMAN: It's very encouraging to state the Yankees...

(LAUGHTER)

ALLEN: The Red Sox just build their talent somewhat from within. They don't buy it.

(LAUGHTER)

I'm joking. At any rate, they are determined.

+++++++++++++++++++


And so that's really what today is about is coalescing the Senate around some of these ideas. Obviously, we need the White House; you can't do these things without the White House. And, obviously, the House of Representatives. We have to get all three branches working together so we can go forward.

ALLEN: I've given the administration credit in the area of nanotechnology. Senator Wyden and I -- we ought to get Wyden on this bill; he should be for this. As soon as we see Ron, we'll get him on this.

On the nanotechnology area, which is the next transformational economic sector and everything from microelectronics to materials engineering, life sciences, health sciences, medical sciences and energy, agriculture -- at any rate, the president has put in and proposed a good chunk -- and, in fact, it's the largest investment in any broad-based science research since the space program. I see that folding in with this.

On the other hand, they have cut back on aeronautics and the Europeans are beating us in the sale of civilian aircraft. And we do need an increase in aeronautics.

So there's a merging here of these ideas.

The thing that I think is very significant for all of you all to understand is that in addition to the research funding, it is these scholarships -- these scholarships or fellowships for young people, so that at an early age parents will say to Susie or Freddie or Jimmy or whomever, "If you do well in math or science, you can get a scholarship." As a parent of kids, I say, "You can go to any school you want to, kids, as long as you get a scholarship. If not, you're going in-state to a Virginia college and such and such."

But the fact of the matter is if you do provide that -- and also, again, the educators, the teachers -- getting others involved in these key areas, that is where I think it'll fit in to a lot of these other related areas.

And so the administration on nanotechnology has been very good. And I think that the president's a good competitive individual. And I think the president understands if you want to recruit a team, you want to recruit a team from everyone, not just 40 percent of the country. And that's why it's important to get more women interested, more African-Americans interested and more Latinos interested.

Because we don't have the population of India or China, nor will we probably forever. But we do need to do is reverse trends and make sure more young people understand that this is an opportunity for their lives, which thereby benefits our country.


*******************

Article 6

What the Democrats are trying to do is engage in class warfare, and it's not productive for our workforce, because what's happening in our workforce is that we have a skills gap. And what you saw from these charts is that new jobs are being created. Since May of 2003, 4.5 million new jobs have been created. The majority of new jobs being created, indeed, require higher skills, more education. So it's really important to continuously increase the skills level and the education level of our workforce. And that's why the president is also focused so much on his No Child Left Behind proposal, because the education foundation that our workers receive as they go into the workforce is very important in enabling them to access the opportunities.

So it's not, you know, an income gap per se, it's much more a skills gap. And our country spends more than $23 billion across 31 different agencies in an effort to bring training to workers and to work with the private sector to focus on training. Right now we have, as I mentioned, a skills gap. We need about a million nurses in the next eight years. We need 3.4 million healthcare workers in the next eight years because of the aging population. The construction industry is only able to find 65 percent of the workers that they need. So we have a tremendous need for skilled trades people, for workers in biotechnology and the life sciences, in transportation, in nanotechnology, in geospatial technology and advanced manufacturing. So the real issue is the skills gap, and that's what we all need to come and work on.

SEC. SNOW: You know, Elaine, your comments there remind of -- oh, about a year, a year and a half ago, I was talking with Rodney Page -- remember our old colleague at the Education Department? And he was saying to me, "John, how's the economy doing? What's the growth rate? What's your outlook," and so on. And I was giving him the numbers, giving him a review of the numbers that we all know. And finally, it occurred to me that I needed to say something to him. So I said, "Rodney, you know, you're asking me about the economy, how it's doing, where it's going. But the fact of the matter is, you as Education secretary, being in that seat responsible for the quality of the education across this country, and setting standards and getting people literate, numerate, and so on, you really are going to have a lot more to do about the economy of the future than I'm going to have."

*******************

Article 7

So it's not an income gap, per se. It's much more a skills gap. And our country spends more than $23 billion across 31 different agencies in an effort to bring training to workers and to work with the private sector to focus on training.

CHAO: Right now, we have, as I mentioned, a skills gap. We need about a million nurses in the next eight years. We need 3.4 million health-care workers in the next eight years, because of aging population.

The construction industry is only able to find 65 percent of the workers that they need.

So we have a tremendous need for skilled tradespeople, for workers in biotechnology, in the life sciences, in transportation, in nanotechnology, in geospatial technology, in advanced manufacturing.

So the real issue is the skills gap. And that's what we all need to come and work on.

SNOW: You know, Elaine, your comments there remind me of about a year, a year and a half ago I was talking with Rodney Paige -- remember our old colleague at the Education Department -- and he was saying to me, "John, how's the economy doing? What's the growth rates? What's your outlook and so on?" And I was giving him the numbers, giving him an overview of the numbers that we all know.

And finally it occurred to me that I needed to say something to him. So I said, "Rodney, you know, you're asking me about the economy, how it's doing and where it's going. But the fact of the matter is, you as education secretary, being in that seat, responsible for the quality of the education across this country and setting standards and getting people literate, numerate, and so on, you really are going to have a lot more to do about the economy of the future than I'm going to have."

And that was really your answer. It really is -- it's really education.

*******************

Article 8

Miniaturization is another exponential trend, both electronic and mechanical. These are some illustrations -- (inaudible) -- 1986 book, which have been simulated, and some of them have been built. 

I talk about in "The Singularity is Near" many have many examples now where we can actually now build things at the molecular level. One scientist just built a little robot that walks with a human-like gait built at a molecular level.

The real sort of killer app of this -- of nanotechnology will be small devices we can place inside the bloodstream that will keep us healthy from the inside. If that sounds very futuristic, I'd point out that we have already demonstrated that in animals with a lot of different applications.

One scientist cured Type I diabetes in rats with an nano- engineered device -- 7 nanometer pores lets insulin out in a controlled fashion, blocks antibodies, because Type I diabetes is an autoimmune disease.

And this is today. If we contemplate the kind of trends I'm talking about multiplying over the next 25 years the power of electronics, communications, by a factor of a billion -- (inaudible) technology by a factor of over a hundred, a (3-D ?) volume every decade. These devices will be very sophisticated in the 2020s.


+++++++++++++++++++

And all this is driving economic gains. GDP is growing exponentially, even on a per-capita basis. Private manufacturing -- well, manufacturing with the value of an hour of labor has gone from $30 to $130 in the last 45 years. It's been a very smooth progression.

(Audio break.)

MR. KURZWEIL: -- in artificial intelligence in the 1980s. It's probably happening now in nanotechnology and even happened with the railroads in the 19th century -- a boom and a bust. But the railroads were ultimately a true revolution.

And information technology is growing. It's a share of the economy. It will be a majority of the economy as we reach the 2020s. At that point it really will be a deeply interconnected world. There will be one world economy. 

This idea of trying to stop outsourcing is like trying to sweep back the ocean.

+++++++++++++++++++

Design of virtual reality environments will be a new art form. But most importantly, it will extend human intelligence -- our memory, our cognitive ability, our pattern recognition facilities.

And I'll leave you with one last thought. All of this has already -- this is not a new story. We're already gone beyond human limitations. We are the species that seeks to go beyond our limitations. We didn't stay on the ground; we didn't stay on the planet; and we're not staying with the limitations of our biology. And when our genes evolved, it was not in the interests of the species for people to live past child-rearing; that only meant like 28. And human life expectancy was in the 20s 10,000 years ago. It was only 37 in 1800. Sanitation, antibiotics, a few other things have pushed it to 80.

When we have this sort of full mastery of biotechnology, we will extend it dramatically. And it's only 10 or 15 years from now. That will be a bridge to the full blossoming of the nanotechnology revolution, where we can go beyond biology, have these nanobots keep us healthy from inside.

So if you can stay healthy the old fashioned way for a few more years, we may get to experience the remarkable century ahead.

Thank you very much.

+++++++++++++++++++

Tell us about the risks and the most dangerous aspects of these technologies?

MR. KURZWEIL: Well, my vision is actually not a Utopian vision. I mean, I think we will be able to solve problems like poverty and environmental degradation. We'll have, for example, clean energy using nanotechnology and nano-engineered fuel cells and so on. But these technologies, aside from empowering our creative side, also empower our destructive side.

We have a new existential risk today -- and actually as we talked about earlier -- recognize this when I wrote my first book, "The Age of Intelligent Machines" that the opportunity to bioengineer biological viruses, which could be done for destructive purposes. And I didn't write about it back then because it was not -- it was not out in the public domain and I didn't want to turn on the TV and have somebody say, oh, I got this destructive idea from Ray Kurzweil's book after some disaster.

+++++++++++++++++++

And even though Bill Joy has been associated with this idea of relinquishments, we actually agree on both the promise and the peril of these technologies.

Nanotechnology will have a peril if self-replicating nanotechnology gets out of control. That would be a new danger. And artificial intelligence, if it's malevolent and more intelligent than us, is obviously a danger. 

There are strategies we can use to defend ourselves. It's a complicated subject, but, you know, in summary I would say this is really, I think, the most important issue facing human civilization. We have tremendous promise. We can really overcome age-old problems with these emerging technologies, but defending ourselves against the peril -- and there are strategies we can deploy is -- really should be our top priority. And we have to put more stones on the defensive side of the scale by consciously investing in defensive technologies.

One last point on that. We can take some comfort in how well we have dealt with a new self-replicating danger. All of these dangers have to do with self-replication. I mean, human disease is almost all self-replication -- bacteria, viruses, cancer cells replicating out of control. The concern that nanotechnology -- the gray goo problem -- is nanotechnology self-replicating out of control.

We have actually a new pathogen in our civilization that didn't exist 30 years ago that is self-replicating -- the software virus -- and it replicates in computer networks. And when these first emerged, observers said, okay, this first generation is crude, but eventually these are going to be so sophisticated they're going to destroy computer networks, and we won't be able to use them anymore.

And they have become very sophisticated, but they really remained on a nuisance level because we have this emerging immune system -- technological immune system. So a new virus and very clever new attack emerges within hours; we create a defense and distribute it. And it's been actually quite effective.

If we can do half as well as we've done with software viruses in say the biological arena or nanotechnology, we'll be doing well.

MR. FOSTER: One listens to you talk and immediately one thinks back to nuclear power and the threat of nuclear power and the success eventually of mutually assured destruction as a foreign policy. 

+++++++++++++++++++

I'm curious about technology for generation of electric power and powering automobiles and so forth. With the -- such a long time using the internal combustion engine, and fuel cells have been around for a long time, what kind of breakthroughs will it take to get wider application of the most modern generation of nuclear plants and fuel cells, which would be non-polluting essentially, in transportation?

MR. KURZWEIL: Well, fuel cells is a way of storing energy. But I talk about this extensively in the book. We basically have sort of old-fashioned, first-generation industrial technology still dominating energy. But ultimately we'll be able to sort of overcome the energy problem using renewable energy through nanotechnology. 

I will give you a couple of examples. If we captured 1 percent of 1 percent of the sunlight that falls on the earth, we could meet 100 percent of our energy needs, and that will grow to 3 percent of 1 percent by 2025.

We can't do that today because we still have these old solar panel technologies that are heavy, inefficient, hard to install, expensive and so on. There is a new generation of nano-engineered solar panels that are better. I think you'll start to see some impact over the next five to eight years. But if you go out 20 years, you really will be able to create extremely inexpensive, highly efficient solar panels that could be integrated with common building materials and capture that what would then be 3 percent of 1 percent of the sunlight and meet all our energy needs, and then store them in nano- engineered fuel cells that will highly distributed at the opposite end of the spectrum from the highly centralized energy facilities that we have now.

That's another major trend I didn't get to comment on is moving from centralized facilities like liquid natural gas tankers and nuclear power plants to highly decentralized ones that are highly stable and invulnerable to disruption. I mean, the Internet is the -- sort of the classic example of a decentralized system. Nobody has taken the Internet down for even one second or even a portion of it.

We ultimately will have an energy system with, you know, billions or trillions of these tiny nano-engineered fuel cells getting energy from a number of renewable sources. We could do it entirely with solar panels, but there are other promising ideas, as well.

So that's one problem I think we'll actually be able to get under control within 20 years. But it does require sort of full nanotechnology, which we won't see for another decade and a half.


*******************

Article 9

VI. The HTCG Dialogue this week

I can say with great confidence that the HTCG is more important than ever before to the Agenda laid out in the July announcement and to overall U.S.-India relations. Our challenge is to build on our past success while effectively integrating the HTCG's mission into the other bilateral dialogues. This week's HTCG meetings represent an exciting opportunity for our governments to work with the private sector to adopt an ever more "results-oriented" approach that seeks to obtain measurable progress in very specific areas - such as investment in defense trade, biotechnology, information technology, and nanotechnology - all of which feed into the dialogues identified by the President and Prime Minister in July.

In addition, we will continue our discussions on strategic trade and export controls with frank exchanges on U.S. and Indian licensing trends as well as on the effective implementation of the recently passed WMD law. These close consultations on strategic trade issues are critical to our technological, economic and political relationship and help build the confidence necessary to further broaden high- technology trade, investment, and cooperation.


*******************

Article 10

MS. SALVADORI: A little bit of a different angle. The big issue around here, and maybe not so much here but even more so in Michigan of course is the big bleeding of the automotive sector. A lot people are just saying it's gone, so that's that. We don't necessarily think that that's true. I think that there's still a lot of opportunities. But other sectors, there are certain traditional sectors in Illinois, one of them being the automotive, that they don't want to let go of.

As far as new sectors where we need liberalization, I'm not sure -- we're not a big sugar or textile area, for one. Steel's gone anyway. And the other sectors that are emerging, such as -- well some are quite well established, biotechnology and then of course the emerging sector of nanotechnology. These are sectors of great possibility for this area, in particular nanotechnology, dealing with materials at the molecular level. There are a lot of manufacturing applications in nanotechnology that -- that seems to be a major potential growth sector for this area because of the fact that we have a manufacturing base.


*******************

Article 11

This is the sort of problem that a breakthrough in quantum computing could hugely impact, again by allowing one to do trillions of calculations all at once.

None of this is going to happen tomorrow. What I have left out of this whirlwind geewhiz presentation of the potential of quantum computing is that there is no working quantum computer now, and don't count on there being one in 2006, either! The scientific and technical challenges associated with constructing quantum bits, and stringing them together into an integrated computer, are immense. In a modern conventional computer, there are literally billions of zero-one bits. A modern quantum computer would be so much more powerful than a conventional computer that it would not need billions of quantum bits in order to do amazing things. But it would need thousands of quantum bits. Currently the best experimental quantum computing teams are able to string together about four, maybe six quantum bits. Still, my own opinion is that quantum computing is such a powerful idea, it really must be explored. Nanotechnology is a second important area that will benefit from the taming of quantum mechanics. I will leave the discussion of why nanotechnology is important for Dr. Heath's testimony.

*******************

Article 12


What has Bose-Einstein condensation been good for? One example is that it is being used in an effort to develop a new generation of sensitive accelerometers to be used for remote sensing and for navigation by dead reckoning, as they do in nuclear submarines. In the long run, Bose-Einstein condensation is likely to be more important because of its role as a scientific building block -- as a tool to help us understand and tame quantum mechanics.

There are many examples of how taming quantum mechanics may make a big difference to our country in the coming couple of decades. We'll probably hear a little bit about nanotechnology from Dr. Heath, but I'll tell you about one idea called quantum computing.

Quantum computing is one of the most amazing concepts, in my opinion, to come out of the 1990s. Inside a computer, there are millions of tiny switches called bits that can be either on or off, one or zero. And these bits are the memory of the computer, and the bits are what a computer uses to make calculations.

+++++++++++++++++++

Senator Stevens and Senator Hutchison, it's a pleasure to be here today to give you my thoughts on the future of science with some perspectives from my own research.

For nearly a century now, the U.S. has been in the lead in developing science and technology. And we've done that by choosing hard problems, funding fundamental science at a level that lets it develop and nurture to build a foundation for technologies, and then by getting out of the way and letting free enterprise take over when the time is right.

A case in point is the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which has received significant support over the past several years from Congress. The NNI took a fledgling but very promising field and provided the resources to develop the foundation of that field.

That investment will definitely pay off, and nanotech is now impacting industries ranging from information technology to health care. That impact will dramatically increase over the next several years, and I believe the U.S. will be in the lead in most areas, largely because of the NNI initiative.

It takes time -- I can tell you from my own research. One of the early discoveries in nanotech was something I did in my thesis work, the discovery of C60 and the Fullerenes, which then led to things like carbon nanotubes, which led to things like nanowires, et cetera.

And if you look now, it's just very early-stage commercial ventures that are beginning to come out of that. And that's about a 20-year timeline. Even with all of our resources and technology infrastructure, it's hard to beat that timeline.

+++++++++++++++++++

The World War II and Sputnik generations of American scientists largely developed the foundation of many of the things that are in our U.S. economy today, such as our biomedical industry, chemical industries and information technologies. The nanotech and biotech revolutions, which are happening now, are largely being developed on the shoulders of people that come here to get their Ph.D.s for graduate school.

As my colleague, and a well-known nanotechnology researcher at Hewlett-Packard, Stan Williams, states, everybody in his lab over 40 years old is American-born; everybody under 40 is Asian-born. China in particular has constructed several state-of-the-art universities, and they're continuing to do so. And they are currently producing many more scientists and engineers than we are.

Asian countries in general are increasingly able to attract back their scientists and engineers by providing them with attractive laboratories, attractive resources and exciting opportunities. In addition, the need of the Asian countries to meet the terawatt challenge has become increasingly acute, and necessity is the mother of invention.

*******************

Article 13

Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, thank you for inviting me to testify at this hearing. I consider it a high honor. My name is Clayton Teague and I am the Director of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office (or NNCO). The NNCO provides technical and administrative support to the Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and Technology (or NSET) Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council's Committee on Technology. The NSET Subcommittee is the interagency body that coordinates, plans, and manages the National Nanotechnology Initiative (or NNI). It is a privilege for me to speak on behalf of all of the 24 agencies that participate in the NNI and representatives on the NSET Subcommittee. For the past two and a half years, I've had the opportunity of working with staff members of these agencies; I assure you they are sincerely dedicated to the missions of their agencies - including protecting public health and the environment. Many of them unselfishly and intentionally have devoted their entire professional careers to these worthy purposes. My testimony today reflects and is a tribute to their efforts and initiative. 

The message that I want to communicate to you today is that the agencies participating in the NNI are working together proactively and have put in place broad and strong coordination and planning activities to understand and address the environmental and safety implications of nanotechnology. Through the NNI, the Federal Government is funding forefront environmental, health, and safety (EHS) research to establish a strong foundation and much progress in understanding EHS implications has been made. In this effort, the NNI is engaged and coordinating with industry and other countries to promote the responsible development of nanotechnology. Finally, NNI-supported studies are providing useful preliminary information, but more research is needed.

Nanotechnology is the understanding, control, and use of matter at dimensions of roughly 1 to 100 nanometers, where unique phenomena enable novel applications. It is a truly transformational technology, promising widespread applications in many fields, ranging from energy and medicine to agriculture and manufacturing. As these applications move from the laboratory to practical use, nanotechnology has the potential to help strengthen the economy, protect homeland and national security, improve public health and the environment, and raise the quality of life for all people. With such powerful promise, the Administration is committed to fostering this emerging technology. The Administration is equally committed to achieving these benefits in a responsible manner - including consideration of benefits and possible negative environmental and safety implications. (In the updated NNI Strategic Plan released in 2004, one of the four overarching goals is to "support responsible development of nanotechnology.") We are here today to discuss these implications, and the research that is needed to address them.

Since it was launched in 2000, the NNI has recognized the need to evaluate the environmental and safety implications of this promising technology. As the efforts to develop new nanoscale materials and devices have grown, so too have efforts aimed at improving our understanding of novel properties of nanomaterials, and risks that may arise from those properties. This increased understanding has in turn guided the agencies' research programs on environmental, health, and safety (or EHS) implications of nanotechnology.

These research programs should continue to be performed concurrently with other nanotechnology research. The United States' investment in nanotechnology research represents only one quarter on the investment by governments worldwide. The global pace of innovation is accelerating and other nations are not going to voluntarily slow down in their efforts to reap the potential of nanotechnology. The current approach whereby EHS research is informed by and performed concurrently with scientific, product and process research will ensure that environment and safety concerns are addressed, while maximizing progress toward realizing nanotechnology's economic and societal value to the Nation.

I want to make two points at the outset.

1. Most nanotechnology-based products pose little chance for public exposure and therefore pose little risk to health or the environment. Most uses of nanotechnology today are in composites where the nanoparticles are bound in a matrix (e.g., in golf clubs or car bumpers) or in nanoscale structures that are part of larger devices (e.g., in electronic circuits). Contact with these items generally poses no greater risk than with the versions not containing engineered nanomaterials. Concern is focused on possible risk due to exposure to the relatively small number of end-use products that contain "free" (i.e., unbound) engineered nanomaterials, which may be inhaled, ingested, or absorbed through the skin or that may find their way into the air, soil, or aqueous environment.

2. Manufacturers already minimize exposure to fine particles in the workplace. The greatest likelihood of exposure to engineered nanomaterials is during manufacture (of nanoparticles or using nanoparticles). It is widely known that inhalation of fine particles in conventional industrial operations should be avoided, and the Federal Government, particularly National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), provides guidance that covers areas such as design and use of ventilation systems, personal protective equipment use, and laboratory practices to minimize such exposure in the workplace. Therefore, minimizing inhalation and dermal exposure to engineered nanomaterials is recommended and the principles guiding efforts to limit exposure should be very similar to those used to limit exposure to other fine particles.

The purpose of these points is not to downplay potential risks associated with nanotechnology, but to put these issues in context. Exposure to free engineered nanomaterials (as opposed to fine particles that are naturally occurring or that are the incidental byproducts of human activities such as combustion or welding) is for the most part still low. So we are well positioned to assess possible risks before nanoparticles become widely used or make their way into the environment in large quantities. So what is the Federal Government doing to understand and address the possible risks of nanotechnology to people and the environment?

The agencies participating in the NNI are working together proactively and have put in place broad and strong coordination and planning activities to understand and address the environmental and safety implications of nanotechnology.

Within our interagency NSET Subcommittee, a number of subgroups have been established to address specific areas of interest or concern. One of these subgroups established in 2003 is the Nanotechnology Environmental and Health Implications (NEHI) Working Group. NEHI brings together representatives from some 24 agencies that support nanotechnology research or that have regulatory responsibilities to exchange information and to identify, prioritize, and implement research needed to support regulatory decision-making processes. Through the efforts of the NEHI Working Group, regulatory agencies have been proactively engaged with each other and the research agencies, leading to earlier awareness of relevant issues and expedited activities to address them. In addition, those agencies that are primarily focused on research have a greater appreciation for the issues confronted by the regulatory bodies. As an aside, many NEHI Working Group members have commented on how unusual it is for issues to be discussed among the regulatory agencies, much less with research agencies. In remarks before a National Academies panel, Norris Alderson, FDA Associate Commissioner for Science, noted that in his more than 30 years with the FDA, he does not recall the regulatory agencies sitting down together to discuss a subject that crosses regulatory boundaries and authorities before he did so in the NEHI Working Group.

Currently, the NEHI Working Group is developing a coordinated approach to nanotechnology research in the area of environmental, health, and safety (EHS). With input from industry and other non- governmental groups, the Working Group is preparing a document that identifies and prioritizes information and research needs in this area. The document will serve as a guide to the NNI agencies as they develop budgets and programs and will inform individual investigators as they consider their research directions. It will also provide a measure of confidence on the part of policymakers, such as you, and the public. We look forward to sharing this document with this Committee when it is complete.

The NSET Subcommittee has also formed a formal working group to liaise with various industrial sectors, including both the chemical and semiconductor industries. Through these activities, industry is providing input to the NNI regarding pre-competitive and non-competitive research needs that those industries deem critical to the successful transition of nanotechnology. Both of these industrial sectors have identified EHS research as an important area for government and industry research, and their input will inform the NEHI Working Group efforts to plan and coordinate NNI programs on the subject.

Finally, the NSET Subcommittee supports a number of international activities related to the topic of nanotechnology and EHS. Concerns about possible environmental and safety implications of nanomaterials are not confined to the United States; research needs are universal. Sharing of information, coordination of research agendas, and collaboration on non-competitive issues benefits everyone. The NNI activities are coordinated through the informal Global Issues in Nanotechnology Working Group, formed in 2005 and led by the State Department.

Through the NNI, the Federal Government is funding forefront EHS research to establish a strong foundation and much progress in understanding EHS implications has been made.

As stated in the NNI Supplement to the President's FY 2006 Budget, the NNI will support nearly $39 million this year on research and development whose primary purpose is to understand and address potential risks to health and the environment posed by exposure to nanomaterials and nanoproducts. This estimate does not include considerable research that is taking place as part of efforts that help advance understanding of nano-EHS implications but that are not focused primarily in this area. For example, many projects funded by the National Institutes of Health to develop nanomaterials for therapeutic applications routinely include basic toxicity testing, although such testing is not the primary purpose of the research. Moreover, this estimate does not include substantial investment in research on the effects of incidental ultra-fine and nano-particles, such as diesel exhaust and power plant emissions. The NNI research on environmental and health implications is being funded by several agencies, including EPA, NIOSH, NSF, NIH, NIST, USDA, DOD, and DOE. Where appropriate, agencies are working together in a carefully coordinated effort to address research areas that fall within more than one agency's mission or that require multiple agencies' expertise.

Examples of multi-agency activities include: EPA, NSF, NIOSH, and NIEHS plan to issue a joint solicitation to support approximately $8 million of research on environmental and human health implications of nanotechnology in 2006. EPA will manage peer review of the proposals, and all four agencies will select from among those that pass review for funding based on agency relevancy and interest. A similar collaboration among EPA, NSF, and NIOSH in 2005 led to about $7 million in funding for research on the same topic.

The Nanotechnology Characterization Laboratory (NCL) is supported by a partnership among the National Cancer Institute, NIST, and the FDA. The NCL, which was established in 2005, provides critical expertise and infrastructure for developing and performing safety tests in order to expedite the use of nanomaterials for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. The expertise of all three agencies is vital to the successful operation of the Laboratory.

The National Toxicology Program (NTP) is an ongoing partnership among NIH's National Institute of Environmental Health Science (NIEHS), FDA's Center for Toxicological Research, and CDC's NIOSH. Beginning in 2004, the NTP initiated a series of toxicity studies on classes of nanomaterials that are especially promising in a range of applications carbon "buckyballs" and carbon nanotubes, nanoscale powders of metal oxides, and semiconductor "quantum dots." The early results of these studies are expected in the coming year.

I also want to highlight the research program established in the past two years by NIOSH. As discussed above, while free engineered nanoparticles are not found in most nanotechnology- based products, workplace exposure during manufacture may be cause for some concern. Accordingly, NIOSH has launched an aggressive research program to assess potential toxicity of nanomaterials found in the workplace, and has produced a preliminary document recommending best practices for safe handling of nanomaterials in the workplace. Information on these and other NIOSH activities with respect to nanotechnology are posted on the NIOSH website (http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/nanotech/ ).

In addition to the various activities within and among the participating Federal agencies, the NNI participates in a number of bodies on the international level. Such activities will help to promote responsible development of nanotechnology worldwide.

Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD): Within the OECD Environmental Directorate, the Chemicals Committee and Working Party on Chemicals, Pesticides and Biotechnology hold regular joint meetings. The next such meeting will be hosted by the United States in the Washington area on December 7-9 and will take the form of a workshop on the safety of manufactured nanomaterials. The objectives of the workshop are to determine the state of the art regarding safety assessment of manufactured nanomaterials and to identify future needs for risk assessment within a regulatory context. The resulting report is expected to discuss issues including nomenclature, human health, environmental hazards, exposure assessment, and possible regulatory frameworks.

International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI): Representatives from EPA and NIOSH participated in a working group convened by the ILSI Research Foundation Risk Sciences Institute to develop a screening strategy for identifying hazards of engineered nanomaterials. The group recently reported on the elements of such a strategy, and recommended broad data gathering. The report acknowledges that at this early stage, there are insufficient data to support a specific testing protocol.

The International Dialogue on Responsible Research and Development of Nanotechnology: The first Dialogue, sponsored by NSF, was held in June 2004 in Alexandria, Virginia, and brought together 25 countries and the European Commission (EC) to discuss environmental, health and safety issues as well as ethical, legal and other social issues. A follow-up meeting was hosted by the EC in Brussels last July, and a next meeting is planned in Summer of 2006 to be hosted by Japan.

International Standardization Organization (ISO) and American National Standards Institute (ANSI) : A critical aspect of protecting health and the environment and a basis of any regulation of chemicals and materials are standardized tools and methods for measuring and monitoring exposure. Research related to measurement science and technology is led by NIST. However, standards are developed jointly by all stakeholders through consensus-based processes. In June 2004, in response to a letter from Dr. John Marburger, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) established a Nanotechnology Standards Panel to facilitate and coordinate nanotechnology standards development in the United States. The NSET Subcommittee and the relevant agencies are members of the Panel and its Steering Committee, and are providing financial support to facilitate its activities.

Subsequently, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) has established a Nanotechnologies Technical Committee, which held its first meeting last week. As Chair of the ANSI- accredited Technical Advisory Group (TAG) to the ISO and leader of the U.S. delegation, I am pleased to report that the United States will lead the Working Group on Health, Safety, and Environmental Aspects of Nanotechnologies. Our first action will be to submit the NIOSH document on "Approaches to Safe Nanotechnology" to the ANSI TAG as a possible work item for the ISO Working Group. If approved the document will be put forth to the ISO Working Group as a draft to be further developed with inputs from other ISO Technical Committee member countries. Once developed and approved by the Technical Committee, the document will be issued as an international Publicly Available Specification; an informational document available to all countries.

The ISO Technical Committee's granting of leadership in the area of environmental and safety aspects of nanotechnology to the United States is an acknowledgement that we are at the forefront in this area.

NNI-supported studies are providing useful preliminary information, but more research is needed.

Preliminary research to date shows, not surprisingly, that not all nanomaterials are alike. Earlier this month, researchers at Rice University released results showing that the toxicity of carbon nanotubes can be reduced by engineering of the nanotube surface, as they had shown earlier for buckyballs. Such data indicate that, unlike naturally occurring or incidental nanoparticles, engineered nanomaterials may be tailored to reduce toxicity.

In another study published recently in the journal Pharmaceutical Research, a group headed by Dr. Russell Mumper at the University of Kentucky, tested nanoparticles coated with polyethylene glycol (PEG), a polymer used to protect many types of therapeutic agents from elimination by the immune system. The investigators developed a test to determine how PEG-coated nanoparticles affected a variety of in vitro and in vivo parameters, including blood clotting time, red blood cell damage, and platelet aggregation or clumping. They found that a concentration of nanoparticles one might expect in the blood stream produced no untoward biological effects on blood cells. These two studies are only a sampling of the wide range of work underway within the NNI. While time does not permit me to describe the work taking place across all of the agencies that support research on environmental and safety implications of nanotechnology, I encourage you to see the NNI FY2006 Supplement to the President's Budget and the NNI website, www.nano.gov, for additional detail.

Current research is providing data that are helping us understand the way nanomaterials interact with biological systems and the environment. However, substantial work remains, including in the following areas.

Methods and metrics for determining nanoparticle exposure and dose received among workers, consumers, and the environment, as well as fate and transport once the dose is received.

Methods for controlling exposure in the workplace, including monitoring and personal protective equipment.

Analytical methods for characterizing nanomaterials properties and behavior. Most toxicologists and the general research community agree that new toxicity tests/methods are not needed for nanomaterials. What is needed is the application of novel (to toxicologists) physical/chemical characterization and detection methods so that researchers can be assured the materials being studied have the expected and desired properties. The unfortunate fact that so many toxicology papers on nanomaterials are difficult to interpret is not because the toxicology study protocols are not up to the task, it's because the reporting of the characterization of the materials is inadequate.

Experimental and computational approaches to determine biological effects, including toxicity

Methods for assessing and managing risk of nanomaterials.

The research needed in this area will be addressed by the various stakeholders, including not only the Federal Government, but also industry and research institutions. The Federal Government will play an important role through its broad support of research, including basic research on the environmental and health effects of nanomaterials. The Government supports research aimed at understanding nanomaterials and how they interact with cells, organisms, and the environment. The Government also supports research aimed at developing tools and methods for measuring and assessing nanomaterials. Such research expands knowledge and understanding, and supports the Federal Government's regulatory role by enabling science-based decision-making.

Yet, we know that much more needs to be done, and many questions remain unanswered. We should not expect that we will have all of the answers quickly. Research takes time, especially on a subject this complex. We already know that all nanomaterials are not created equal in terms of potential hazard or potential exposure. A carefully designed research plan, along with shared Government and industry responsibility and collaboration should guide our efforts. We must evaluate research results carefully, and if we discover that there are dangers associated with certain materials in specific uses, we should determine what restrictions might be necessary, including applying current regulatory authorities. Above all we need to be guided by science, not by irrationality or emotion. Finally, we need to communicate effectively and openly with the public. Nothing else will establish trust and credibility.

Thank you for the opportunity to speak today on this important aspect of nanotechnology.

*******************

Article 14

I want to welcome everyone to this important hearing on the environmental and safety implications of nanotechnology - an issue that is likely to get increasing public attention over the next several years. But it's a matter that has already claimed the attention of this Committee for some time.

As I think everyone knows, the Science Committee has been a leader in pushing the federal government to invest in nanotechnology and in creating the statutory structure to be sure that we stay focused on nanotechnology research and development (R&D) in a productive way. And our National Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, which the President signed four years ago, made it clear that nanotechnology R&D had to include research on the environmental implications of the technology - not as a sideline, but as a fundamental, integrated part of the research program. And we have been watching closely to make sure that happens. 

The need for more research on the environmental and safety aspects of nanotechnology is made amply clear by our non- governmental witnesses this morning, who speak in their written testimony with remarkable unity. Their message is clear and must be heeded: if nanotechnology is to fulfill its enormous economic potential, then we have to invest more right now in understanding what problems the technology might cause.

This is the time to act - before we cause problems. This is the time to act - when there is a consensus among government, industry and environmentalists. As Mr. Rejeski says in his testimony this is our chance to "get it right" - to learn from past mistakes we made with new technologies.

The writer Kurt Vonnegut once defined the "information revolution" as the idea that people could actually know what they're talking about, if they really want to. That's exactly the kind of information revolution we need in nanotechnology. I'm pleased to say that the Administration also seems to feel that way, as Dr. Teague will describe this morning. But we need an even greater commitment from the Administration on this issue. We will be closely reviewing the so-called "framework" on this matter that is due out early next year as well as the fiscal 2007 budget request due out in February to ensure that funding is adequate.

*******************

Article 15

I. Introduction

A remarkable and unusual consensus has emerged with respect to the federal government's role in nanotechnology: Organizations as diverse as environmental NGOs, large chemical companies, nanotech startups, insurance companies and investment firms all agree that the Federal Government should be immediately directing many more of the dollars it is currently investing in nanotechnology development toward identifying and assessing the potential risks of nanomaterials to human health and the environment. This Federal investment in risk research is essential to developing the basic infrastructure that will enable the private sector to fulfill its responsibility to identify, assess and reduce the potential risks associated with the nanomaterialcontaining products before they are brought to market.

Nanotechnology, the design and manipulation of materials at the atomic scale, may well revolutionize many of the ways our society manufactures products, produces energy, and treats diseases. Hundreds of large and small nanotechnology companies are developing a wide variety of materials for use in electronics, medical diagnostic tools and therapies, construction materials, personal care products, paints and coatings, environmental cleanup, energy production and conservation, environmental sensors, and many other important applications. 

Deliberate exploitation of properties that only become evident at the nanoscale is central to these applications. Such properties include highly specific binding over a huge surface that arises from tiny particle size, absorption and radiation of specific wavelengths of light, penetration of cellular barriers, and high tensile strength and durability. Carefully controlled, these properties may provide highly beneficial products. But these new and enhanced properties also raise the possibility of unintended adverse consequences for human health and the environment. The same binding properties that allow use of nanoparticles to deliver therapeutics to cancer cells may also, for example, deliver toxic substances to normal human cells, or to aquatic organisms if such materials are released or used in the ambient environment. The electrical properties that drive applications in computers can lead to oxidative damage in living tissues. It is essential that potential harms like these are identified and mitigated up front, prior to widespread commercialization and human and environmental exposure.

II. Responses to the Committee's Questions

This testimony provides Environmental Defense's responses to the four questions posed by the Committee in its invitation letter.

A. Committee question #1: Are current federal and private research efforts adequate to address concerns about environmental and safety impacts of nanotechnology? If not, what additional steps are necessary?

In our view, current federal and private research efforts are far from adequate to address concerns about environmental and safety impacts of nanotechnology, and funding for such efforts should be substantially increased. The U.S. government, as the largest single investor in nanotechnology research and development, needs to spend much more to assess the health and environmental implications of nanotechnology and ensure that the critical research needed to identify potential risks is done expeditiously. Through the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI), the federal government spends roughly $1 billion annually on nanotechnology research and development. Of this, environmental and health implications research accounted for only $8.5 million (less than 1 percent) in FY 2004, and is expected to increase to only $38.5 million (less than 4 percent) in FY 2006.

In a rare example of convergence from sectors that often have highly divergent views, environmentalists, industry and the insurance and investment communities are all calling for dramatic increases in federal funding on the health and environmental implications of nanotechnology. For example, in June 2005 the CEO of DuPont and the President of Environmental Defense coauthored an opinion editorial in the Wall Street Journal calling for an increase in such funding to at least $100 million annually. That same month, the American Chemistry Council's Panel on Nanotechnology and Environmental Defense issued a Joint Statement of Principles stating: "A significant increase in government investment in research on the health and environmental implications of nanotechnology is essential." And in a recent report on nanotechnology, Innovest, a leading investment research and advisory firm, has said: "We strongly support calls by others in the investment community for increased government funding of toxicology research. The NNI's lack of priority for this issue represents a missed opportunity to minimize uncertainty."

Similarly, at a briefing held on March 22, 2005, to preview the findings of a report by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) that reviewed the NNI, John H. Marburger III, Science Adviser to the President and chief of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, stated that the toxicity studies now underway are "a drop in the bucket compared to what needs to be done."

Our and others' calls for the U.S. government to spend at least $100 million annually on hazard and exposure research for at least the next several years is buttressed by experts' assessments of the cost to conduct the needed research, as well as by testing costs associated with hazard characterization programs for conventional chemicals, and the research budgets for a roughly analogous risk characterization effort on risks of airborne particulate matter.5 While this level of risk research spending will represent a significant increase over current levels, it is still less than 10% of the overall federal budget for nanotechnology development. Moreover, it is a modest investment compared to the benefits of risk avoidance and to the $1 trillion contribution that nanotechnology is projected to make to the world economy by 2015.

What additional steps are necessary? We recognize that at present the NNI's Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology Subcommittee (NSET) serves primarily as a facilitator and coordinator of nanotechnology-related activities among the various Federal departments and agencies. In our view, ensuring that sufficient and appropriate risk research is carried out by the Federal Government may well require vesting the NSET or one of the lead federal health or environmental research agencies with responsibilities that go beyond these current functions. Sufficient authority to oversee and direct federal risk-related research is essential to ensure first, that the right questions are asked and answered, and second, that identified risks are comprehensively assessed and do not fall through the cracks between statutes, departments and agencies.

We therefore offer two proposals for your consideration. The first is to vest NSET or one of the lead federal health or environmental research agencies with:

-- the task of developing an overall federal research strategy for identifying and assessing potential risks of nanomaterials;

-- the authority to shape and direct the overall federal risk research agenda across agencies to ensure all critical needs are being addressed, ideally with some budgetary authority; and

-- the responsibility to ensure that individual agencies have sufficient dedicated staff and resources to conduct or commission the needed research in their areas, and sufficient authority to identify and assess potential risks.

Our second proposal is that Congress should call on the NNI and its member agencies to request assistance from the National Academies, in particular the Board on Environmental Studies and Toxicology (BEST). BEST should be asked to review the NNI agencies' ongoing research and research plans, offer its guidance on appropriate risk screening and assessment approaches, and help guide the development and implementation of the federal research strategy we call for above, to help ensure the right research is done. BEST has played an analogous role in the formulation and execution of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's research strategy for assessing the risks of airborne particulate matter.

Of course, the U.S. government should not be the sole, or even the principal, funder and conductor of nanomaterial risk research. Other governments are also spending heavily to promote nanotechnology research and development, and they too should allocate some portion of their spending to address nanotechnology risks. And although government risk research has a critical role to play in developing the basic knowledge and methods to characterize and assess the risks of nanomaterials, private industry should fund the majority of the research and testing on the products they are planning to bring to market. Clearly, all parties will benefit if governments and industry coordinate their research to avoid redundancy and optimize efficiency.

B. Committee question #2: What are the primary concerns about the environmental and safety impacts of nanotechnology based on the current understanding of nanotechnology? The primary concerns about nanomaterials' health and safety impacts arise both from consideration of the inherent nature and novel properties of at least certain nanomaterials, and from surprising results seen in many of the relatively small number of nanotoxicity studies conducted to date. As described below, various nanomaterials have been demonstrated to have the potential to:

-- cross physiological barriers (lung-blood and blood-brain) and enter the systemic circulatory system, thereby posing risks to organ systems removed from the site of entry;

-- evade the body's usual metabolic and immune defense mechanisms;

-- penetrate cell membranes;

-- directly interact and possibly interfere with cellular components;

-- deliver secondary molecules to intracellular targets, or reach non-target cells or organs; and

-- persist and accumulate in the body or the environment. Scientists are only beginning to examine the extent to which these behaviors can result in significant toxicological impacts, and if so, at what levels of exposure. Likewise, as yet there is little understanding of the mechanisms that lead to the biological effects that have been observed in toxicity studies. Such effects, further described below, include the potential to:

-- kill skin cells in culture;

-- damage brain tissue in mammals and in fish;

-- impair lung function and generate unusual granulomas in the lungs of rodents; and

-- kill microorganisms, including ones that may constitute the base of the food web.

Need for a lifecycle view, especially for dispersive applications of nanomaterials Some uses of nanomaterials already on the market, and others now in the pipeline, will result in exposure of humans or the environment, either through direct application or dispersive use. Some of these exposures reflect the inherent nature of the product or application, such as in uses of nanomaterials in drugs and cosmetics, and in remediation of groundwater contamination. Other products may also entail substantial exposures, though not necessarily during a product's use. For example, tennis rackets, automobile running boards, and other products contain carbon nanotubes embedded within resins or other matrices. While exposure to individual nanoparticles during such a product's intended use seems unlikely, a lifecycle view is critical to understanding the potential risks. A product's lifecycle includes not just the product's use phase, but also its manufacture (and the manufacture of its components) and its disposal or recycling/reclamation. Human or environmental exposures during these other stages may be substantial. For instance, nanomaterials present in cosmetics and sunscreens will be washed off and enter water supplies - as has already been demonstrated for pharmaceuticals and ingredients in personal care products. And although computer users are highly unlikely to inhale carbon nanotubes bound in their computer screen, exposure potential may dramatically increase when recyclers ultimately grind up those screens for other uses. Human exposures are most obvious for the workers doing the grinding, but may also be associated with the various stages of the lifecycle of the subsequent product(s) - especially if knowledge of the presence of nanomaterials is not carried downstream along with the material itself.

Novel properties of nanomaterials that may pose potential risks Potential to cross cell membranes: In some cases, the very properties that make nanomaterials uniquely useful in biomedical or other commercial applications also raise the potential for novel mechanisms and targets of toxicity. For example, the ability of certain nanoparticles to penetrate cell membranes, which new applications to deliver targeted therapies exploit, suggests that nanoparticles will also be able to cross physiologic barriers and enter body compartments that larger particles and smaller molecules do not readily access. Particles of different sizes gain entry into the body's cells via very different mechanisms. Those larger than 500 nanometers (nm) primarily gain entry through active endocytosis; those smaller than 200 nm gain entry through a variety of active and non-active mechanisms. One study of 20-nm polystyrene beads suggests that they enter cells by passing directly through membranes - without requiring specific transport mechanisms. Once inside the cells, these nanoparticles distribute throughout the cytoplasm and appeared to bind to a variety of cell structures.

The manner in which different individual and aggregated nanoparticles may interact with critical cell structures is poorly understood, and cannot be inferred from studies of chemical agents or randomly generated nanoparticles. Surface modifications may allow nanoparticles to bind to cell surface receptors and either avoid uptake or be taken up by specific transport mechanisms, allowing cell targeting for therapeutic agents. It is clear that subtle variations in nanoparticle surfaces, whether due to intentional coating prior to entry into the body or unintentional surface binding or to coating degradation once inside the body, can have dramatic impacts on where and how nanoparticles gain entry into cells, as well as where and how they are transported within cells after entry. Understanding the implications of such transport, as well as ensuring the stability of surface properties throughout the lifespan of manufactured nanoparticles, will be critical to assuring safety.

Preliminary efforts to use nanoparticles for therapeutic interventions indicate that at least some nanomaterials have unanticipated toxic effects - effects that have been detected only because of the testing that routinely occurs in the course of drug development. In one example, researchers developing nanoparticles designed to target gliosarcoma tumor cells noted that, of twenty such materials, all caused adverse effects on the reticular endothelial system (comprised of the liver, spleen and peripheral lymph nodes) and the kidneys.

Translocation of inhaled nanoparticles from lung to brain or into systemic circulation: Nanoparticles can deposit throughout the respiratory tract when inhaled. Some of the particles settle in the nasal passages, where they have been shown to be taken up by the olfactory nerves and carried past the blood-brain barrier directly into brain cells. Smaller nanoparticles have been shown not only to penetrate deeply into the lungs, but to readily cross through lung tissue and enter the systemic circulation. These and other studies suggest that some nanomaterials can evade the lung's normal clearance and defense mechanisms. This potential for rapid and widespread distribution within the body offers promise of a new array of diagnostic and therapeutic applications for these substances - but it also heightens the importance of having a full understanding of their toxicity.

Lack of data on chronic toxicity, surprising results in short- term studies No studies on reproductive toxicity, immunotoxicity, or chronic health effects such as cancer or developmental toxicity of nanomaterials have yet been published. Of the limited number of short-term studies completed to date, however, several have found a variety of adverse effects associated with each of the major classes of nanomaterials now being produced. Studies in which carbon nanotubes (CNTs) were instilled into the lungs of rodents have consistently demonstrated that CNTs cause unusual localized immune lesions (granulomas) within thirty days, and other signs of lung inflammation. One of these studies - which utilized lower doses corresponding to the equivalent dose that would be experienced after a few weeks exposure at the current OSHA workplace standard for respirable particles - also found that single-walled CNTs cause dose-dependent fibrosis even in areas of the lung far removed from the sites of particle deposition. One study of multi-walled CNTs showed similar lung toxicity, especially after the material was finely ground.16 Oxidative stress may be part of the mechanism behind the damage to lung tissue that has been observed in these studies of carbon nanotubes. Single and multi-walled CNTs have also been shown to induce oxidative stress in skin cells. These studies raise concern for potential toxicity at the beginning or end of the lifecycle of products containing CNTs, through workplace exposures or if CNT-containing products undergo weathering, erosion or grinding during recycling or disposal.

C60 fullerenes (commonly known as buckyballs) have been less well- studied in mammalian models. A recent study of buckyballs found that, although individual buckyballs do not dissolve well in water, they have a tendency to form aggregates that are both very watersoluble and bacteriocidal, a property that raises strong concerns of ecosystem impacts because bacteria constitute the bottom of the food chain in many ecosystems. They are also capable of being transported via the gills from water to the brains of fish, where they can cause oxidative damage to brain cell membranes. In experiments with human cultured cell lines, buckyballs show high toxicity, causing oxidative damage to cell membranes that leads to cell death.

Quantum dots can be made of a variety of inherently toxic materials, including cadmium and lead. As some of the key applications of quantum dots include diagnostic imaging and medical therapeutics, quantum dots have been studied relatively extensively in biological systems, although only a small portion of this research has focused on potential toxicity. Studies performed to date have mainly been in vitro cytotoxicity assays that measure cell damage or death. While results have been somewhat inconsistent, studies that used longer exposure times were more likely to demonstrate significant toxicity. Quantum dots typically have a core made of inorganic elements, but they are generally coated with organic materials such as polyethylene glycol to enhance their biocompatibility or target them to specific organs or cells. Some coatings initially decrease toxicity by one or more orders of magnitude, but the coatings are known to degrade when exposed to air or ultraviolet light, after which toxicity increases. While the presumption has been that this cytotoxicity is caused by leakage of toxic heavy metals (e.g., cadmium or selenium) from the core, there is evidence that some of the molecules used as coatings may have independent toxicity. Significant questions remain about the safety of quantum dots based on the available in vitro studies.

Although the doses and methods of administration used in many of these studies do not necessarily reflect mirror likely exposure scenarios, the results strongly suggest the potential for some nanomaterials to pose significant risks.

Importance of surface area and surface properties

Understanding the behavior of nanoparticles requires careful characterization of their surface properties. For a given mass of particles, surface area increases exponentially with decreasing diameter (and increasing number). This increased surface-area-to- volume ratio may be a critical feature in understanding the toxicity of nanomaterials. For example, it leads to higher particle surface energy, which may translate into higher reactivity. In addition, the combination of high surface area and small size may give nanoparticles unusual catalytic reactivity due to quantum effects, such as those seen with gold nanoparticles. This combination of enhanced surface area and enhanced surface activity lends far greater complexity to the characterization of nanoparticles, and also precludes easy extrapolation about potential toxicity. Stability of coatings: Most research to date has used prototypical or "plain" nanoparticles, such as uncoated buckyballs and carbon nanotubes. The few studies that have looked at the effects of variations and coatings have shown that these changes modify (typically reduce) the toxicity of the original particle, further complicating the picture by raising the question of how these coatings may degrade over time within the body or in the environment. In sum, the limited information available to date indicates that nanomaterials can both: a) exhibit novel properties and behavior that facilitate access to organisms, including specific cells or organs, raising the potential for biologically significant exposures to occur should such materials be released, and b) exhibit toxicity to a range of cell and organ types both in vitro and in vivo.

C. Committee question #3: What should be the priority areas of research on environmental and safety impacts of nanotechnology? Who should fund and who should conduct that research?

There is broad agreement among stakeholders that addressing the potential risks of nanotechnology will be an unusually complex task. Despite its name, nanotechnology is anything but singular; it is a potentially limitless collection of technologies and associated materials. The sheer diversity of potential materials and applications - which is a source of nanotechnology's enormous promise - also poses major challenges with respect to characterizing potential risks.

Even before the research that will allow hazards and exposures to be quantified, a number of more fundamental needs must be addressed. It is already clear that even extremely subtle manipulations of a nanomaterial can dramatically alter its properties and behavior: Tiny differences in the diameters of otherwise identical quantum dots can alter the wavelength of the light they fluoresce; slight changes in the degree of twist in a carbon nanotube can affect its electrical transmission properties. A priority must be to develop the means to sufficiently characterize nanomaterials and to systematically describe and detect such subtle structural variations - a clear prerequisite to being able to conduct and interpret the results of toxicological testing and exposure measurements. Emphasis needs to be placed, therefore, on developing methods, protocols and tools needed to characterize nanomaterials, and to detect and measure their presence in a variety of settings (e.g., workplace environment, human body, environmental media).

Among the types of risk research that are needed for specific nanomaterials are the following:

-- Material characterization (in manufactured form(s), during use, in emissions, in wastes, in products; in environmental media, in organisms)

-- Biological fate (extent and rate of absorption, distribution, metabolism, elimination in mammals and other organisms)

-- Environmental fate and behavior (persistence, transport between and distribution among media, transformation, bioaccumulation potential)

-- Acute and chronic toxicity (related to both human and ecological health)

For each of these areas, existing testing and assessment methods and protocols need to be re-examined to determine the extent to which they can be modified to account for nanomaterials' novel characteristics or need to be supplemented with new methods. Similar challenges will arise with respect to methods and technologies for sampling, analysis and monitoring, all of which will be needed to detect nanomaterials and their transformation products in living systems and in various environmental media.

Another essential task for government-funded research is helping to create an initial database of toxicity data on representative or model nanomaterials. Doing so will help guide additional research by the private sector on their own nanomaterials, and will also lay the groundwork for the ultimate development of so- called "structure-activity relationships" (SARs) for nanomaterials. SARs are now widely used to reduce the amount of traditional toxicological testing needed to characterize conventional chemicals, by allowing the toxicity of an unstudied chemical to be estimated, based on its degree of structural similarity to chemicals that have been studied. Use of SARs is beneficial for several reasons: it's faster, it's cheaper, and it can minimize the need for testing using laboratory animals. But existing SAR models cannot simply be applied to nanomaterials: Because the models are based on the properties of bulk forms of conventional chemical substances, and because nanomaterials' novel and enhanced properties result from characteristics (e.g., size, shape) in addition to their molecular structure, existing models have little applicability to nanomaterials. In other words, the defining character of nanotechnology - the emergence of novel properties and behavior that cannot be predicted from the properties and behavior of their bulk counterparts - effectively precludes our relying on existing knowledge about the toxicity of conventional chemicals to predict the toxicity of nanomaterials. Only once enough data exist to correlate a nanomaterial's properties - or the changes in such properties that occur in the body or the environment - with observed patterns of toxicity, will nanomaterial-specific SARs be possible.

In sum, government needs to play the lead role in developing the enabling infrastructure for identifying and assessing nanomaterials' potential risks, including by developing and standardizing methods for:

-- physical-chemical characterization of nanomaterials;

-- sampling and analysis;

-- detection and monitoring: in workplaces, air/waterborne releases, humans and other organisms, environmental media;

-- assessing environmental fate and behavior;

-- assessing biological fate and behavior, including generating and making available radiolabeled or otherwise traceable samples of key types of nanomaterials, for government's own and others' use in such fate studies;

-- testing for acute and chronic toxicity, including the development and validation of nonanimal test methods where doing so is scientifically appropriate, in order to minimize animal testing; and

-- hazard, exposure and risk assessment.

As noted above, given its major investment in nanomaterials development, it is also appropriate for government to identify and conduct a full characterization and testing of a variety of "model" nanomaterials, although industries already using these materials should also help fund this basic work. Government should also take the lead on coordinating the efforts of private and public sectors, and for international cooperation and coordination of risk research. None of the above should be construed, however, as a substitute for companies taking responsibility for (and bearing the financial burden of) all of the testing needed to ensure the safety of their products prior to commercialization. To ensure maximum value and bolster public confidence in such research, we believe government and industry should commit to make publicly available all results, not just "interesting" ones that may be publishable in scientific journals or are required by law to be reported.

D. Committee question #4: What impacts are environmental and safety concerns having on the development and commercialization of nanotechnology-related products and what impact might these concerns have in the future?

While industry representatives may be in a better position to fully address this question, let me discuss one type of impact - public backlash - that could readily arise, given the growing evidence of potential health and environmental risks posed by certain nanomaterials, and the government's to-date-inadequate effort to identify and address such risks. The "risks" at issue here, therefore, are not only those related to health and the environment, but also risks to the very success of this promising set of technologies. If the public is not convinced that nanomaterials are being developed in a way that identifies and minimizes negative consequences to human health and the environment, a backlash could develop that delays, reduces, or even prevents the realization of many of the potential benefits of nanotechnology. As demonstrated with genetically modified organisms just a few years ago, rapid commercialization combined with a failure to address risks early on can lead to product bans and closed markets, resulting in this case in hundreds of millions of dollars in annual export losses for U.S. farmers and companies. While little research into public attitudes toward nanotechnology has been conducted to date, some recently reported findings are telling. In the context of finding generally low public awareness of nanotechnology and, among those with some awareness, a generally positive attitude, there were also some warning signs:

-- Public trust in government appears to be low, with no more than half of the surveyed members of the public expressing confidence in Congress' or the Executive Branch's willingness or ability to manage nanotechnology-related risks.

-- Suspicions of industry abound, with only a small percentage indicating that industry could be trusted to "self-regulate" and a concern that industry often rushes products to market without adequate testing. Equally interesting were the responses concerning how the government and industry might best build public trust. For example:

-- The two best ways identified by respondents to build public trust were requiring increased safety testing prior to introduction of products onto the market, and provision of more information to inform consumers' choices. Better tracking of risks for materials already on the market also ranked high.

-- The lack of information on long-term health and environmental effects of nanotechnology and its products was frequently cited as a major concern. Of course, all of these findings stress the need for more and better research into potential short- and long- term risks to be conducted now, prior to widespread commercialization of nanomaterial-containing products.

Finally, there is growing reason to expect that the extent of safety assessment conducted prior to market introduction of nanomaterial-containing products could well become a competitive issue. The investment firm Innovest notes in its recent report: "Off the record conversations with regulators indicate that Europe, the UK, and China are expecting to have some sort of binding requirement for companies within the next 2 to 4 years. China clearly states that its standards were designed to create a robust foundation for nanotechnology development in that region and that they expect their standards to impact the competitive landscape for nanotechnology."

Clearly, the U.S. nanotechnology industry will benefit from an environment in which it can offer reassurances that the safety of its products has been assessed using robust methods and evaluation procedures. Industry itself recognizes as much; as the Innovest report goes on to note: "A significant portion of the more than 60 companies we interviewed indicated an interest in having some sort of standards in place. In many cases, they felt that sciencebased regulation would provide a more level playing field. The lack of adequate funding for toxicology research is, again, an issue here. ... Counter to intuition, our research shows that robust, science-based regulation can contribute to healthy market development."

III. Conclusion

In our view, both the public and private sectors' best interests are served by an investment to identify and manage potential nanotechnology risks now, rather than to pay later to remediate resulting harms. History demonstrates that embracing a technology without a careful assessment and control of its risks can be extremely costly from both human and financial perspectives. The failure to sufficiently consider the adverse effects of using lead in paint, plumbing, and gasoline has resulted in widespread health problems that continue to this day, not to mention extremely high remediation costs. Asbestos is another example where enormous sums of money were spent by private companies for remediation, litigation, and compensation, even beyond that spent by the public sector to alleviate harm to human health and the environment. Standard & Poor's has estimated that the total cost of liability for asbestos-related losses could reach $200 billion.

The rapid commercialization of nanotechnology, coupled with the potential risks from at least certain nanomaterials as demonstrated in initial studies, lends urgency to the call for greater investment in risk research from the outset. Government and industry have done a great job so far in accentuating nanotechnology's potential upsides and in accelerating its development, but they have yet to come to terms with their equally critical roles in identifying and avoiding the downsides. A far better balance between these two roles must be struck if nanotechnology is to deliver on its promise without delivering unintended adverse consequences. Fortunately, nanotechnology development and commercialization is still at an early stage, so it is not too late to begin managing this process wisely. Given the length of time it will take to develop an adequate understanding of the potential risks posed by such a wide variety of nanomaterials, and to apply this knowledge to inform appropriate regulation, it is imperative to take action now.

Nanotechnology offers an important opportunity to apply the lessons from prior mistakes by identifying risks up front, taking the necessary steps to address them, and meaningfully engaging stakeholders to help shape this technology's trajectory. In short, there is an opportunity to get nanotechnology right the first time.

*******************

Article 16

I would like to thank Chairman Sherwood Boehlert, Ranking Member Bart Gordon, and the Members of the House Committee on Science for holding this hearing on the environmental, health, and safety (EH&S) implications associated with the development of nanotechnology. My name is David Rejeski, and I am the Director of the Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. This Project was created earlier this year in partnership with The Pew Charitable Trusts.

The Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies is dedicated to helping ensure that as nanotechnologies advance, possible risks are minimized, public and consumer engagement remains strong, and the potential benefits of these new technologies are realized. The Project collaborates with researchers, government, industry, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and others concerned with the safe applications and utilization of nanotechnology. 

Our goal is to take a long-term look at nanotechnologies, to identify gaps in the nanotechnology information, data, and oversight processes, and to develop practical strategies and approaches for closing those gaps. We aim to provide independent, objective information and analysis that can help inform critical decisions affecting the development, use, and commercialization of nanotechnologies throughout the globe. In short, both the Wilson Center and The Pew Charitable Trusts believe there is a tremendous opportunity with nanotechnology to "get it right." Societies have missed this chance with other new technologies and, by doing so, have made costly mistakes. We think nanotechnology's promised benefits are so great that we do not believe the United States and the rest of the world can afford to miscalculate or misstep with nanotechnologies.

As the Committee knows, nanotechnology is expected to become the transformational technology of the 21st century. It is the world of controlling matter at the scale of one billionth of a meter, or around one-100,000th the width of a human hair. Researchers are exploring new ways to see and build at this scale, reengineering familiar substances like carbon and gold in order to create new materials with novel properties and functions.

As the National Science Foundation (NSF) highlights, the ability to determine the novel properties of materials and systems at this scale implies that nanotechnology eventually could impact the production of virtually every human-made object everything from automobiles, tires, and computer circuits to advanced medicine and tissue replacements and lead to the invention of products yet to be imagined. Nanotechnology will fundamentally restructure the technologies currently used for manufacturing, medicine, defense, energy production, environmental management, transportation, communication, computation, and education.

NSF predicts that the world market for goods and services using nanotechnologies will grow to $1 trillion by 2015. Lux Research calculates that in 2004 there were $13 billion worth of products in the global marketplace incorporating nanotechnology.2 Others estimate there are already over 700 products on the market that are made from or with nanotechnology or engineered nanomaterials. Worldwide about $9 billion annually is being spent by governments and the private sector on nanotechnology research and development.

1. What impacts are environmental and safety concerns having on the development and commercialization of nanotechnology-related products and what impact might these concerns have in the future?

In the midst of the tremendous excitement over nanotechnology that exists in university research laboratories, government agencies, and corporate boardrooms, publics throughout the world remain largely in the dark. A major study, funded by NSF and conducted in 2004 by researchers at North Carolina State University (NCSU), found that 80-85% of the American public has heard "little" or "nothing" about nanotechnology.3 This is consistent with similar polling results in Europe and Canada. Anecdotally, some researchers believe that an even higher percentage of the public remains uninformed about nanotechnology. Earlier this year (2005), the Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies commissioned a new report by Senior Associate Jane Macoubrie, who co-authored the NCSU study in 2004. This new report, "Informed Public Perceptions of Nanotechnology and Trust in Government," provides an in-depth look at what Americans know and do not know about nanotechnology.

It indicates that U.S. consumers, when informed about nanotechnology, are eager to know and learn more. They generally are optimistic about nanotechnology's potential contribution to improve quality of life. The key benefits the public hopes for are major medical advances, particularly greatly improved treatment for cancer, Alzheimer's, and diabetes.

The Project's report findings track closely with work done last year (2004) by University of East Anglia researcher Nick Pidgeon for Great Britain's Royal Society. Pidgeon found there were few among the British public who knew much about nanotechnology. Those that did were optimistic that it would make life better. Study participants expressed concern about privacy issues and about the high costs of nanotechnology research and development to the British taxpayer. Some Britons also feared that nanotechnology would turn out to be a case of "scientists trying to play God" a phrase frequently attributed to the Prince of Wales in the press.

This general public optimism about nanotechnology is what I consider the "good news." In the NCSU study, only 22 percent of the U.S. participants believed that nanotechnology's risks would exceed its benefits. The rest anticipated nanotech's benefits would exceed risks (40 percent), or expected risks and benefits to be about equal (38 percent).

The "bad news" is that both the recent Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies report and last year's NCSU study highlight "no" or "low" American public trust in government and industry to manage any potential risks associated with nanotechnology. This is important because, both at home and abroad, the public's risk tolerance is weighed against a technology's direct benefit to them or to a group of people they consider important children, senior citizens, the sick, the poor, and the disadvantaged. It also is highly dependent on their confidence or trust in the people making decisions about the technology's development, commercialization, and regulation.

Worse, the Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies' report showed that a lack of knowledge about nanotechnology-based products, about possible health and environmental implications, and about the oversight process designed to manage any potential risks breeds U.S. public mistrust and suspicion. In the absence of balanced information, people are left to speculate about the possible health and environmental impacts of nanotechnology. Rightly or wrongly, without information, they often draw on analogies of what they consider past failures to effectively manage risks like dioxin, Agent Orange, or nuclear power. A Nature magazine editorial described this Project report along with a recent U.K. citizens' jury conducted by the universities of Cambridge and Newcastle as providing governments with some "direct public guidance on citizens' interests that must be protected if nanotechnology is to flourish."6 For policymakers, the "take home" messages from a number of studies are quite clear:

-- Consumers want more information to make informed choices about nanotechnology's use and greater citizen engagement in shaping how the technology is developed.

-- There are low levels of trust in government and industry to manage any risks associated with nanotechnology. There is little support for industry self-regulation or voluntary agreements. A majority of the public believes that mandatory government controls are necessary.

-- People have clear ideas about how to improve trust. They want government and industry to practice due diligence to ensure manufacturing and product safety. In both U.S. and U.K. studies, this translated into strong support for research and safety testing before products go to market and a focus on better understanding long-term effects on both people and the environment.

In my view, there is still time to inform public perceptions about nanotechnology and to ensure that nanotechnology is developed in a way that citizens as well as the insurance industry, corporate investors, NGOs, and regulatory officials can trust. However, with the production of nanosubstances ramping up and more and more nanotech-based products pouring into the marketplace, this window is closing fast. Industry remains concerned about the possibility of liability for nanoproducts with unknown risks in an uncertain regulatory environment. Coordinated education and engagement programs will be needed, supported by both government and industry. These programs will have to be structured to reach a wide range of consumers, cutting across age, gender, and socioeconomic status, utilizing a variety of media going beyond traditional print, radio, television, film towards non-traditional media such as blogs and multiplayer on- line games.

2. What are the primary concerns about the environmental and safety impacts of nanotechnology based on the current understanding of nanotechnology?

Over the past 15 years, scientific data on the health and environmental impacts of nanostructured materials has been growing slowly. Three scientific reviews of the subject recently have been written, each of which notes that while some initial information as to environmental, health, and safety (EH&S) implications is available, much more work remains to be done in this area.

One overview of the subject by Gunter, Eva, and Jan Oberdorster notes that laboratory studies have shown that airborne nanoscale materials depositing in the respiratory tract can cause an inflammatory response when inhaled.7 The small size of engineered nanomaterials also makes it easier for their uptake into and between various cells, allowing for transport to sensitive target sites in the body, including bone marrow, spleen, heart, and brain. Various kinds of nanomaterials, including C-60 fullerenes, single-walled nanotubes, and quantum dots, have been found to mobilize to mitochondria in cells, potentially interfering with antioxidant defenses. However, the translocation rates of these materials are uncertain.

In addition, Oberdorster et. al. report that there have been only a few studies looking at the effects of engineered nanomaterials on environmental systems. Water-borne carbon-60 was found to lead to oxidative stress in the brains of largemouth bass, although the mechanisms of action were uncertain. The bactericidal properties of carbon-60 in water have also been reported, and are being used as potential new anti-microbial agents.

However, such uses may have unforeseen consequences on delicate ecosystems if materials are released into the environment. Quoting the authors, "During a product's life cycle (manufacture, use, disposal), it is probable that nanomaterials will enter the environment, and currently there is no unified plan to examine ecotoxicological effects of [nanoparticles]."

An article by Andrew Maynard and Eileen Kuempel on the impact of airborne nanostructured particles on occupational health notes that while a number of studies have investigated the toxicity and exposure of ultrafine aerosols, there are currently no studies on exposure and response to engineered nanomaterials in humans. Nevertheless, our experience with ultrafine aerosol particles (particles smaller than 100 nm that are typically a by-product of a process) in the workplace has shown that inhalation of micro- and nano-sized fibers and particles can lead to increased rates of cancer, lung disease, and adverse respiratory symptoms. In addition to size, the shape, solubility, surface chemistry, and surface area of ultrafine particles is known to increase inflammation and tissue damage. These are not properties that are usually considered when evaluating hazards and health impacts. While it should be emphasized that little data exists in relation to the human health impact of these factors for engineered nanomaterials, similar responses can be expected and appropriate risk-management strategies will be needed.

Finally, a recent paper sponsored by the International Life Science Institute10 (ILSI) highlights a number of these points by noting that the unknowns and uncertainties surrounding the current state of EH&S research imply that "there is a strong likelihood that biological activity of nanoparticles will depend on physiochemical parameters not routinely considered in toxicity screening studies." In short, the report concludes that "little knowledge exists regarding specific nanomaterial characteristics which may be indicators of toxicity," requiring additional investigations into the physiochemical characterization of these materials and the development of accurate in vitro and in vivo testing methods.

Overall, a comparative reading of these three overview articles and other published studies elucidates a number of key points, including:

-- Since engineered nanomaterials show behavior that depends on their physical and chemical structure, risk assessment paradigms that have been developed based on traditional, bulk chemistry alone may no longer be valid.

-- Inhaled, nanometer-structured, insoluble particles can elicit a greater response in the lungs than their mass would suggest, indicating mechanisms of action that are dependent on particle size, surface area, and surface chemistry, among other properties. However, information is lacking on nanomaterials' structure-related behavior in the body.

-- Inhaled, nanometer-diameter particles may leave the lungs through non-conventional routes and affect other parts of the body, including targeting the cardiovascular system, the liver, kidneys, and the brain. Next to nothing is known about the impact of engineered nanomaterials on these organs.

-- Nanometer-diameter particles may be able to penetrate through the skin in some cases, although this is still an area of basic research and the chances of penetration appear to be significantly greater for damaged skin. The potential for nanostructured particles present in cosmetics and other skin- based products to do harm may be low, but remains unknown.

-- Virtually nothing is known about the hazard of engineered nanomaterials ingested as a food additive or by accident.

-- Although an understanding of the impact of engineered nanomaterials and nano-enabled products on the environment through their lifetime is considered critical, virtually nothing is known at present. Much of the research undertaken so far has raised more questions than answers. To date, the majority of research has focused on relatively basic engineered nanomaterials. As nanomaterials move from simple to complex materials and on to active and multifunctional materials, major knowledge gaps need to be filled before useful quantitative risk assessments can be carried out and before comprehensive, lifecycle risk management strategies can be developed. As the image below indicates, the technology is developing more rapidly than our understanding of the EH&S risks and our ability to respond with effective policy measures.

What should be the priority areas of research on environmental and safety impacts of nanotechnology? Who should fund and who should conduct that research?

A number of groups have developed, or are in the process of developing, lists of research priority areas and questions of interest. These organizations include the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)11, Environmental Defense12, the Semiconductor Research Corporation, and the Chemical Industry Vision 2020 Technology Partnership13. Despite the diversity of these organizations, these gap analyses are generally in broad agreement on the areas requiring further research and development. Common themes include: Toxicity (human and environmental), exposure and material release/dispersion, epidemiology, measurement and characterization, control of exposure and emissions, safety hazards, risk management models, and product life cycle analysis.

There also appears to be agreement that the federal support for risk-related EH&S research has been spread too thin. As a result, EH&S research currently lacks enough depth to adequately address and provide substantial answers to many risk management questions that will emerge in both the near and long-term future. Therefore, an effective, forward-looking, internationally recognized EH&S research strategy needs to be developed to fill this gap.

A major barrier to developing a coherent risk-related research agenda of sufficient breadth and depth within government and in conjunction with the private-sector is a lack of coordination and information about the risk-related research the government is currently supporting.

To address this issue, the Project on Emerging Nanotechnologies is in the process of compiling a publicly accessible inventory of government-supported, risk-related research both domestically and internationally that is addressing the EH&S implications of nanotechnology. It is our hope that this inventory will be a useful tool for informing future EH&S-related research strategies and policy decisions. Although not comprehensive, it will provide the most complete overview of current federally funded research into the EH&S implications of nanotechnology to date.

The first generation of this inventory contains basic information on government-funded, risk-related research projects, including summaries, outputs, duration, funding sources, and budgets. The research is categorized on multiple levels. The first layer of categorization analyzes each research project by its relevance to the implications of nanotechnology, whether the nanomaterials under investigation are intentionally manufactured, incidental or naturally occurring, and whether the primary focus is on human health, environment, or safety impacts. A second layer of categorization classifies the research according to its focus within a simplified risk analysis framework. Finally, provision is made for a more detailed, third level of classification according to a range of searchable keywords and phrases.

As of early November, the inventory included a total of 154 ongoing and completed projects in the United States, accounting for roughly $23 million per year of federally funded research across 8 different agencies. The inventory also currently includes 15 projects from sources around the world, including Canada, the U.K., and EU countries, accounting for roughly $2.6 million per year.

This inventory will be made available online on November 29th and will include our initial analysis of research gaps. We would like to submit our preliminary analysis of the federal EH&S research portfolio to this Committee and request that the docket be held open until then, if possible. Additions to the inventory will be made as new information is received, and researchers and research managers will be encouraged to contribute new or updated information as their work progresses. The inventory is currently undergoing external peer review, along with internal checks for accuracy.

There are a number of key advantages provided by the inventory:

-- It can enable the coordination of research between disciplines, agencies, and various stakeholders. It can also enable the coordination of research internationally, reducing the probability of duplicative research in different countries.

-- It will allow the government to develop an integrated set of EH&S policies that are designed to make strategic investments based upon what work is already being undertaken. By helping to identify where the need for further funding lies, the current gaps in the EH&S research portfolio can be more easily addressed.

-- It will satisfy the public's desire for greater transparency and disclosure of government activities, a desire that has been voiced repeatedly in the surveys and public perception studies discussed earlier.

-- It will allow for the government to form partnerships with industry around pre-competitive research, as it becomes evident which exposure and toxicity issues are of interest to firms in the early stages of commercialization. Joint funding for EH&S research would be seen as a broad-based, long-term investment in nanoscale science and technology and would greatly increase our understanding and ability to manage potential risks.

Preliminary analysis of the data indicates that most critical research gaps are being addressed to a certain extent. However, it is also apparent that coverage of these issues is very limited, patchy, and uncoordinated. Research into exposure and hazard evaluation is relatively well represented in the database, and there are a number of projects providing information on nanomaterials' behavior that may determine impact. Research into how to control nanomaterials' releases and exposure effectively is being undertaken, and to a lesser extent, research into risk assessment and management methods and models.

The areas of research that are underrepresented by comparison are human health effects and environmental impact, and human safety (such as fire and explosion hazards). It is also apparent that much of the current research portfolio focuses on first generation engineered nanomaterials, with very little strategic research addressing more complex materials currently under development. NIOSH, EPA, and NSF are leading the research highly relevant to the environmental, health, and safety implications of engineered nanomaterials, with DOD also making a significant contribution. Investigator-driven research funded by all four agencies is dominating mission-driven research addressing EH&S issues - raising questions over the degree to which currently funded projects address strategic issues.

Evaluating the number or value of research projects addressing specific issues in isolation does not provide insight into research gaps and strategy limitations. However, when used in conjunction with complementary information on research and oversight needs, it provides a powerful tool for developing informed, focused, and long-range strategies.

Third, in addition to the need for increased funding and coordination, our analysis of the inventory data raises a host of more difficult questions related to structural issues. Does a trained workforce exist both domestically and internationally to undertake such novel research? Do governments have adequate human resources and the cooperative mechanisms necessary to manage such an effort effectively? Is there sufficient international agreement on technical definitions, metrology, and testing frameworks to collaborate and evaluate risk-related research among many countries?

At this point, it is uncertain as to whether this emerging policy response to concerns over nanotechnology's EH&S implications will be able to match the pace of innovation. As developments in nanotechnology become more revolutionary, transformative, and discontinuous, the governance system must adjust and change accordingly. Failure to do so will perpetuate the public's low trust in the government's ability to manage technological risk.

4. Are current federal and private research efforts adequate to address concerns about environmental and safety impacts of nanotechnology? If not, what additional steps are necessary?

Our ability to realize the promise of nanotechnology is becoming more and more linked to governance and management issues, not just science. The country that wins the global nanotech race will be the country that can manage a suite of potential risks and challenges involving pubic perception, effective oversight, and the possibility of surprise. Understanding the environmental and health risks is a necessary but insufficient condition for success. If the goal of the National Nanotechnology Initiative is ultimately the creation of economic value, jobs, and innovative products that can change people's lives, we need a larger perspective on the tasks ahead and, in all probability, newer and smarter management and governance approaches that go beyond "another interagency workgroup." Let me discuss the risks we face as a society using a broader framework that goes beyond EH&S issues. I will focus on areas we need to tackle, and discuss what the federal government, along with other key stakeholders, might do.

Health and Environmental Risks

From a global perspective, the U.S. government has responded early and comparatively well to the EH&S challenge. As I outlined earlier, there are gaps in knowledge that must be closed and this requires more open debate and cooperation with industry and other countries. We need to acknowledge that the fiscal constraints we face in this country and elsewhere may limit our ability to significantly increase research dollars. As the analyses by the American Association for the Advancement of Science have indicated, U.S. funding for environmental research has been flat (in real terms) for more than 20 years. The existence of very real fiscal constraints means that effective management of the EH&S research enterprise for nanotechnologies is imperative, not optional. Every dollar, every euro or yen matters, and must be leveraged. The United States should take the lead by putting our research cards on the table so we can build winning hands with other countries and industry.

I strongly feel it is time to launch an International Nanorisk Characterization Initiative (modeled roughly on the Human Genome Project) where we develop priorities across countries, align teams of researchers to address these priorities, and implement an information infrastructure to support global collaboration. Engaging industry in supporting pre-competitive research projects in this portfolio will also be necessary. The risk characterization challenges we face today are relatively easy compared to what will come as nanotechnology and biotechnology converge and as we build ever-more complex and multifunctional nanostructure and systems of nanostructures. We are at the bottom of a very steep learning curve.

Perception Risks

Recently, a number of reports from the financial sector have underscored the importance of addressing and managing perception risks related to how the people perceive nanotechnologies.14 In the end, the success of nanotechnologies will depend on the public opening its mind and pocket book and embracing nanotechnology. This is not a given, as we have learned from other technologies such as genetically engineered foods and nuclear power. Recently, pharmaceutical companies have seen profits erode because of declining public trust in their organizations and products.

Based on the public perception studies from multiple countries, which I summarized earlier, the public has clearly articulated their concerns about nanotechnologies and what they expect from government and industry. To summarize this, they are asking for better due diligence involving standardized testing (preferably by independent third parties), greater transparency, and the disclosure of test results. The public's willingness to tolerate risks from new technologies also is linked to the perception of early and significant benefits. The large-scale benefits from nanotechnology have not yet materialized and may not for 3-10 years. For the foreseeable future, I believe there will be little public tolerance of oversight failures or mishaps, either in the United States or in most European countries. A mishap could rapidly chill investment and galvanize public opposition. More civil society actors are becoming aware of nanotechnologies and carefully watching both government and industry response to possible risks.

How growing numbers of the public learn about nanotechnologies, from whom, and with what message, may be critical in shaping long- term popular acceptance. The U.S. government needs a public engagement strategy, which is not the same as education. Educating people on nanotechnology assumes there is a deficit in their understanding. Engagement forces us to admit that the public may have something important to say to scientists, industry, and policymakers and that they deserve being part of the larger conversation about how nanotechnology develops. Engagement cannot be a public relations campaign. As Physicist Richard Feynman once noted, "For a technology to succeed, reality has to take precedence over public relations."

The U.S. government, for example, should set a goal of engaging at least 3,000 citizens and public opinion leaders around the nation over the next year. This would require 20-25 town meetings, "listening sessions," and civic forums, but it would be time and money well spent and would help to raise public awareness and public confidence. Associated with this effort, we also need to establish an ongoing and scientifically robust mechanism to track public knowledge and attitudes toward nanotechnology over time (on a regular six-month basis, for instance). Let's call this a NanoBarometer - designed to take the pulse of the public and to continually monitor and help to evaluate our public engagement efforts.

Industry also plays a critical role in shaping perception risks. Few companies have talked openly about their involvement with nanotechnology, no doubt because of large uncertainties concerning public reaction and government regulatory intentions, but this situation needs to change. In the long run, silence is likely to breed suspicions and mistrust on the part of the public.

Structural Risks

With more and more nanotech-based products entering commerce, a key question is whether significant gaps exist in our oversight structure and how we can address these. Though agencies have been meeting to discuss oversight and the EPA has begun developing a voluntary program, our approach on the regulatory side so far has been ad hoc and incremental. It is particularly worrisome that many nanotechnology-based products are entering the market in areas with little, or no, government oversight, such as cosmetics and consumer products. The U.S. government approach has been limited by the following:

-- A focus on single statutes such as the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) rather than taking an integrated, multi- statute approach

-- A focus on products more than the facilities and processes where production occurs

-- A general lack of concern with the full lifecycle impacts of emerging nanotechnologies (an approach recommended in the U.K. Royal Society Report)16

-- Too few resources devoted to pollution prevention and the "greening" of nanotechnology products and production processes, which could help industry ultimately avoid potential risks from the beginning

-- Too little discussion of the resource constraints to effective oversight (for instance, do we have the personnel and dollars in the agencies needed for enforcement or testing?).

Most important, we have not looked forward to consider where nanotechnology is heading, assuming decades-old policies and analogies to the past will help us respond to the risks of the future. Today, nanotechnology is largely chemistry. But in a very short time, it will be chemistry and biology, and after that we will be dealing with multifunctional machines operating at the interface of classical and quantum physics.

Many of the assumptions that governed our approach to chemicals regulation may no longer hold. Because the risks of nanomaterials are poorly related to mass (and depend on other characteristics like surface volume, chemistry, charge, etc.), governments and industry will have to rethink the mass-based approaches that have historically shaped our toxicology, regulations, and regulatory- related monitoring systems. We need a systemic analysis across agency statutes and programs, across agencies, and across the international landscape. This should include existing regulations, voluntary programs, information-based strategies, state and local ordinances, and tort law. All these measures need to be evaluated not just in terms of their applicability to nanotechnology today, but also in terms of their efficacy in five or ten years. We need an oversight blueprint that is proactive, transparent, and, for industry, predictable both now and into the foreseeable future.

In 2003, the Congress asked the National Academy of Sciences to evaluate the National Nanotechnology Initiative, largely from the perspective of the science. We urgently need to examine the governance. Now it is time to ask the General Accountability Office or National Academy of Public Administration to undertake (within one year) a systematic analysis of the governance structure for nanotechnologies and develop a government-wide blueprint that will work not only today, but also 10 or 20 years from now. We owe that to consumers, to workers, and to industry.

There are also risks that arise from the structure of the nanotechnology industry itself. Nanotechnology will not play out in a handful of large and well-staffed facilities where oversight and proper workforce training are relatively easy. The scientific investment strategies of the U.S. government and dozens of other countries have been designed to distribute nanotechnology R&D efforts across hundreds, and eventually thousands, of laboratories globally. These labs will in turn incubate thousands of small firms involved in a Darwinian struggle to push products to market.

Already there are 1,200 nanotech start-ups worldwide, with more than 60 percent in the United States. Added to the university laboratories, we have thousands of people working at the messy and often unpredictable interface between novel technologies and human judgment. Assume that much of the workforce is young graduate and post-doctoral students, and other Generation-Y types with newly minted science or engineering degrees a cohort of people that often tend to ignore safety protocols in the workplace.

The government needs "push strategies" directed at small businesses, start-ups, and small labs. If someone is running an 8- 10 person nanofirm, we cannot assume they will have significant time and resources to devote to environmental, health, or safety issues. The government (at federal, state, and local levels) needs to knock on their doors with useful technical and, potentially, financial assistance. Mounting information on government websites will not adequately address this problem.

One of the best ways of delivering this information is to use "intermediaries" such as professional societies along with technical assistance programs at universities and in the extension services of the government. Policymakers need to constantly ask themselves the question, "Will this program or policy work for small nanotech businesses?" In addition, large companies with the resources to address EH&S issues need to develop strategies to push this know-how down their supply chains to smaller firms involved in nanotech production. Government programs and policies should support and reward such supply-chain approaches in industry.

Small and medium sized firms also need relatively inexpensive and rapid methods to screen emerging nanosubstances and products for human and ecotoxicity. The federal government could help by supporting the development of fast-turnaround, standardized toxicity screens that can fit into the product development cycles of companies. Such screening techniques hopefully would allow environmental and human health problems to be identified early and engineered out of products before they enter the marketplace.

Wildcards

Finally, let me say a few words about what I would characterize as "wildcard" risks such as accidental or intentional releases. Here, I can only comment that I hope we are doing more than I can presently detect. Ed Tenner, a historian of science at Princeton University, once observed that there is a "tendency of advanced technologies to promote self-deception." Nanotechnology is not something we want to get smug or overconfident about. We could be surprised in unpleasant ways, either by the technology itself or by people who mishandle, mislabel, or misuse the technology. Unfortunately, we have no Department of Unintended Consequences in the federal government.

An accidental release of engineered nanomaterials into the environment, while probably not posing significant risks, could be a public relations nightmare, with a chilling effect on global investment. For example, the chief executive of a nanotechnology company recently was quoted in the media boasting that his company is manufacturing 50 tons of Polyhedral Oligomeric Silsesquioxanes (POSS ) chemicals at its supply plant in Mississippi. A patently harmless industrial accident at that facility unrelated to the manufacture of these nano-structured chemicals first discovered 30 years ago by General Electric Co. has the potential to create unnecessary public and first responder panic simply because of their association with a technology that is unfamiliar and undefined to most citizens, EH&S professionals, and government safety officials. Planning to address this gap at the federal, state, community, and factory level is essential. I know of no emergency response plans that have been developed by the federal government or local first responders to address such a scenario. Such an accident could occur anywhere, which means we need to prepare globally. We need to anticipate, plan for, and rehearse every possible scenario we can imagine, to prepare for the unthinkable. Of special importance is the consideration of so-called "black swans," events with large impacts, incalculable probabilities, and surprise effects.

In addition, we should assume that bad practices will occur along with good practices as nanotechnology evolves. Everyday, vigilant and intelligent people recognize errors around them and can often come up with ingenious ways to correct problems. Taken one at a time, these bad practices seldom lead to a disaster if recognized early and addressed. The challenge is to develop ways for "error correcting knowledge" to be collected, managed effectively, and channeled into solutions. One model for this is the Aviation Safety Reporting System, which collects and analyzes voluntarily submitted reports from pilots, air traffic controllers, and others involving safety risks and incidents. The reports are used to remedy problems, better understand emerging safety issues, and generally educate people in the aviation industry about safety. A similar system in the U.K., called CHIRP, is designed to promote greater safety in both the aviation and maritime industries and is run by a charitable trust.

We should create a Nano Safety Reporting System where concerned people working with nanotechnologies in laboratories, companies, or in shipping and transport situations can share safety issues and concerns. The purpose is not finger pointing but encouraging proactive learning. This information could be used to design educational materials, structure technical assistance programs, and provide a heads-up on a host of possible safety issues. Again, the goal is early warning of emerging risks and the reduction of possible wildcards.

Management and Coordination

Addressing the issues outlined above requires a properly resourced coordination function and smart management.

A recent GAO report on results-oriented government makes it clear that effective federal collaboration is key to addressing many 21st century challenges.20 For the most part, we have yet to develop a winning formula for collaboration. The National Nanotechnology Initiative is one of the most complex interagency endeavors ever undertaken by the U.S. government, now involving over $1 billion per year in funding and 25 separate agencies. This increase in the number of possible partners across the government leads to an almost exponential increase in the number of possible collaborations - of both productive and potentially nonproductive natures.

The sum of 25 agency missions does not necessarily add up to a coherent federal strategy for addressing risks, engaging the public, providing adequate oversight, or managing the unexpected. It is simply the sum of the missions, or less. As the GAO report points out, these missions are often not mutually reinforcing or can even be in conflict. "You end up with a patchwork of programs that can waste funds, confuse and frustrate program customers, and limit the overall effectiveness of the federal effort." Our approach to social and ethical issues has largely involved an "outsourcing" model where the scientists do the science and "ethics" are dealt with in separate institutions and centers. Policy considerations have been dealt with as "add- ons" rather than being fully integrated into the research planning process. Given the pace of development, neither one of these approaches is likely to provide government with adequate "early warning" and the necessary lead time to structure effective policies or responses to emerging social and ethical issues.

Nanotechology is just the latest in a series of upheavals in our scientific and industrial landscape, which is being shaped simultaneously by rapid and disruptive changes in areas such as information technology, biotechnology, and cognitive science. Many agencies like FDA and EPA are grappling with the implications of the genomics revolution and are hard-pressed to consider nanotechnologies. These agencies are stretched thin. The depth of expertise in the individual agencies on nanotechnology often involves only 2-3 professionals. Again, most of these people are scientists, not people with public policy or public administration experience.

The managerial and coordination infrastructure in place simply does not match the enormity and importance of the task. We need a beefed up, visible federal face for nanotechnologies sending a coherent message to the public and industry. I believe that the National Nanotechnology Coordinating Office (NNCO) can help in this regard, but it is understaffed and under-funded by orders of magnitude. This is not about creating an additional bureaucracy; it is about creating coherence and the capacity to manage a complex enterprise. Again, let me emphasize that we can succeed with the science but fail on governance, compromising our competitive position.

I hope these observations will be helpful to the Committee as they consider what steps might be taken to ensure that the promise of nanotechnology can be realized.

Key Questions from Different Perspectives Scientific/Technical

-- Which properties or attributes of engineered nanomaterials are particularly significant to health/environmental impacts?

-- Are nanomaterials capable of interacting in ways we are currently unaware of, or targeting biological/environmental systems we are unaware of?

-- Are there classes of nanomaterials that present a greater or lesser hazard?

-- Can we predict chronic/long-term impacts to both humans and ecosystems?

-- How will risks change as nanotechnologies evolve (nanobio, nanosystems, systems of systems)? How will we anticipate, evaluate, and manage these risks?

-- What are the beneficial applications of nanotechnology to environmental and human health problems? Can nanotechnology be developed so that the benefits outweigh the risks?

-- How can we prevent risks posed by the pollution generated in the production of nanomaterials and their associated products? Policy/Regulatory

-- What mechanisms work best to regulate nanotechnology-based products?

-- Have potential chronic and long-term risks, issues, and consequences been analyzed by policymakers and government agencies?

-- Does sufficient expertise exist in the government to address the EH&S implications of nanotechnology? If not, how will we attract and retain talent?

-- What opportunities exist for public-private and international partnerships?

-- Will our policies and programs work for small and medium-sized enterprises?

-- How can risk management and regulatory models be developed which are relevant to an ever-changing technology?

-- How does the structure of the emerging nanotechnology industries affect their response to EH&S issues?

-- How have uncertainties and "domains of ignorance" been taken into account during the decision-making, policymaking, and standard-setting process?

-- Who will be responsible, and who will be held accountable, for any unforeseen harm, ill-used, or dangerous applications of nanotechnology?

-- Who is responsible for collecting data on nanotechnology industries that can inform policymaking (the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Census Bureau, etc.)?

-- Are we trying to anticipate possible accidental misuse of nanotechnologies? Who in the government should be doing this?

-- Is there a need for new legislation or a new department specifically focused on nanotechnology? Public Perception

-- Who does the public trust to handle and manage the EH&S risks?

-- How is information related to nanotechnology communicated and made available? What media are most effective (for which age groups, for instance)?

-- Are public perceptions being included and used to inform debates about proposed and pending regulations?

-- How will the public react in the event of an accident, mishap, or product recall? What would the government message be?

*******************

Article 17

Good morning Chairman Boehlert, Congressman Gordon, and members of the committee. My name is Krish Doraiswamy, and I am a Research Planning Manager for DuPont Central Research & Development. In that role I am responsible for coordinating and monitoring DuPont's research & development activities in Nanoscale Science and Engineering (what we refer to as NS&E), and for developing and nurturing collaborative R&D relationships. I appreciate this opportunity to share our views on the research needed to address the Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) implications of nanotechnology.

DuPont is a science driven company with a commitment to safety, health and environmental protection. As a 200 year-old company, we have participated in the development and evolution of many technologies, and we are proud to have contributed significantly to the advancement of scientific knowledge. At DuPont, we use science to develop products and services that improve the quality and safety of people's lives. We also use science and our commitment to safety to guide how we develop, manufacture and manage our products throughout their life cycle. 

Today, my testimony will make three points:

-- Broad applications of nanoscale materials will emerge faster if we understand the safety, health and environmental implications.

-- Cooperative efforts are needed to resolve key uncertainties, and I will provide examples of what DuPont is doing today to address these uncertainties. -- There is a need for increased research funding that is more strategically targeted to address fundamental safety, health and environmental questions.

The need to understand SHE implications of nanoscale materials

DuPont's interest in nanoscale materials is a natural extension of our rich and deep knowledge base in materials science and its applications. The nanostructure of materials has been a fundamental determinant of a material's properties long before NS&E and nanotechnology were identified as distinct fields of study. Certain nanoscale materials (such as carbon black, pigments, magnetic storage media, and silverbased photographic chemicals) have been in commercial use for decades, or even centuries.

However, the emergence of new tools and techniques for the measurement, characterization and control of nanoscale features gives rise to many new opportunities. We can more precisely tailor known materials to more effectively deliver desired properties and to enhance functional benefits. For example, new polymer nanocomposites can be stronger, lighter, smarter and use less resources than conventional plastics. In addition, and more importantly, the new tools and techniques enable new generations of nanoparticulate materials and nanostructures that can create entirely new product possibilities. These new materials may, for example, enable advances in medicine, new devices and display technologies, and new approaches to energy generation and storage.

While this rapid expansion of knowledge is creating new opportunities, it is also raising new questions about nanoscale materials, and their potential impact on health, safety and the environment. Many of these questions are of particular relevance to particles that are specifically engineered to exhibit new behaviors and that measure less than 100 nanometers on at least one dimension. Such questions include:

-- How do free nanoparticles with novel properties interact with the physiology of humans or other species?

-- How is this interaction the same as or different from the behavior of the comparable bulk materials?

-- What are the pathways by which exposure to such free nanoparticles can occur, and how can this exposure be measured and controlled?

-- Do we have generally accepted tools and methods to answer these questions?

These questions must be addressed as new nanoscale materials move into the market. However, the absence of generally accepted testing methods and standards, and the lack of scientifically validated data threatens to slow down innovation and significantly delay the introduction of new products and applications. An important fact is that many of the most interesting discoveries relating to new nanoscale materials are being made in universities and by entrepreneurs in start-up companies. These entities may lack the experience, resources and funding needed to adequately address the fundamental safety, health and environmental questions. It is our belief that such broadly relevant questions should be a significant part of the national agenda for research in NS&E.

Because nanoparticles do not necessarily behave like their larger particle relatives, research is needed to develop a uniform, science-based approach for identification of hazards, assessment of exposure and management of risks. This research requires immediate attention.

The need for a cooperative effort, and what DuPont is doing

These questions are being widely discussed and considered by federal agencies, public and private special interest organizations, and in several industry, scientific, national and international forums. We believe that all parties with an interest or a stake in the responsible development and use of these new materials should work together to allow nano-scale science and engineering to reach its full potential. Specifically, we advocate collaboration in the development of responsible safety standards and test methods; the coordination of research to generate reliable, peer reviewed data; and the establishment of appropriate oversight. DuPont is leading or actively participating in programs that seek to address each of these issues. We have taken several actions in order to contribute to the responsible development and use of nano-scale materials, including:

-- DuPont coordinated the launch in June 2005 of a consortium of parties interested in nanoparticle occupational safety and health. This is a multi-stakeholder consortium of more than 14 industry, academic and government organizations formed to sponsor research that will further our understanding of factors relevant to the assessment and control of occupational exposures to engineered nanoparticles.

This two year research project will be led by DuPont scientists and will help us understand (a) How airborne nanoparticles may behave in the workplace; (b) How to monitor and measure occupational exposures to airborne nanoparticles; and (c) How to assess the penetration of engineered nanoparticles through candidate barrier materials for personal protective equipment. Members of this consortium include: DuPont, Procter & Gamble, Dow Chemical, Air Products & Chemicals, Inc., Degussa, Rohm & Haas, PPG, Intel Corporation, the UK Health & Safety Executive, and the Department of Energy Office of Science.

-- We are working with a broad industry group (the Chemstar Panel on nanomaterials, within the American Chemistry Council). This panel is developing recommendations for the EPA and for the chemical industry regarding safety, health and environmental issues and regulatory guidelines for nanoscale materials. As part of this effort, we participated with the Ad Hoc Nano Working Group of the U.S. EPA's National Pollution Prevention and Toxics Advisory Committee (NPPTAC) to develop options for the EPA regarding a voluntary reporting program to share and generate data on nanoscale materials.

-- We are supporting research at the Rice University Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology (CBEN), and are founding members of ICON, the International Council on Nanotechnology, also based at Rice University. ICON is a multi- stakeholder group, with representation from industry, academia, regulatory and non-governmental organizations to "assess, communicate, and reduce nanotechnology environmental and health risks while maximizing its societal benefit." More information about ICON is available at www.icon.rice.edu.

-- We have entered into an agreement with Environmental Defense to jointly develop a framework that can be used to identify, manage and reduce potential health, safety and environmental risks of nano-scale materials across all lifecycle stages. This work is just getting started, and we expect to consult extensively with other stakeholders during the project.

-- In addition to these cooperative efforts, We have an active internal Product Stewardship program on nanomaterials, including toxicity assessments of lung responses. We are studying nanomaterials in commercial development as well as generic nanoscale particles, and comparing their effects to standard reference particle-types.

In summary, we are dealing with nanoparticle SHE questions as a work in progress on many fronts, with broad engagement of other stakeholders to develop robust guidelines.

However, these efforts go only part of the way toward developing the strong foundation of knowledge and tools that are needed by the NS&E community. Fortunately, there has been progress on other fronts. For example, a report issued last month by the International Life Sciences Institute Research Foundation/Risk Science Institute (ILSI), and funded by the EPA, recommends the first elements of a screening strategy to characterize the potential human health effects from exposure to nanomaterials. DuPont toxicologist David Warheit was a contributor to the development of the ILSI report. DuPont applauds these efforts to carefully define the research that is needed, and we believe they provide a good initial foundation for a broad SHE-focused research strategy. We believe that broadly representative organizations such as the National Academy of Sciences could play a role in the further development of this strategy. In particular, we endorse the pressing need for research in the following areas:

-- Understanding the critical physical, biological, and chemical parameters that characterize nanomaterials;

-- Measuring, at an appropriate level, the presence of nanomaterials in the environment and particularly in the workplace;

-- Understanding and predicting the environmental fate of nanomaterials with particular attention to persistence and bioaccumulation;

-- Developing toxicity tests for hazard assessment of nanomaterials, with particular attention to validated in vitro screening tests, to the extent practical, and applying these tests to establish baseline criteria for evaluation of nanomaterials.

The need for increased and strategically targeted SHE research funding.

In our opinion, the research that has the highest priority relates to the development of the practical knowledge base that is described above, and the development of tools and methods that are broadly relevant to practitioners which can be widely shared within the NS&E community. We, therefore, believe that this area of research should be publicly funded.

The same message was delivered by DuPont's Chairman & CEO and the President of Environmental Defense, in an article they coauthored earlier this year in the Wall Street Journal. To quote from this article, "Our government also needs to invest more seriously in the research necessary to understand fully nanoparticle behavior."

However, the challenge is greater than the mere allocation of additional funds for SHE research. The mechanism by which federal research funds are allocated today for NS&E is designed to support and accelerate discovery and innovation across a wide spectrum of autonomous agencies, and to foster unfettered creativity in identifying new innovation opportunities. However, we believe that there is a better model for supporting research relating to SHE questions. A more actively managed, strategically targeted, and carefully coordinated approach is needed to achieve our common goal. This goal is to systematically develop the measurement tools, test methods and rigorous, peer-reviewed data that will enable nanotechnology to deliver on its promise. The preferred SHE research model would, therefore, take a more prescriptive approach to the selection and prioritization of research topics, and would establish metrics to measure progress against defined targets.

In conclusion:

-- We believe that Nanoscale Science and Engineering is an important field of knowledge, with rich potential to enabotechnology. And the first thing -- and a couple of you have tried to do this this morning and I applaud you for it -- is to find precisely what nanotechnology is. It's not something really exact that you can pack in a box. You talked about different materials. You talked about the filters, which I thought was very, very good.

So it's a very wide field and my friendly admonition is: Please, when we do this, let's do it with a good deal of science-based thought and not be hysterical or print anything or do anything that would lead other people to be hysterical -- like, actually, some NGOs, I might say, whose bread and butter is to instill certain hysterical thoughts in the public.

So let's stick with sound science, please -- sound science, facts. Let people know what nanotechnology is, what it can do from a medical standpoint, scientific standpoint, consumer product standpoint. And do it with sound science and not do it to stir up people out in the hustings who don't have time to learn precisely what it is.

So that was a statement, Mr. Chairman, and not a question, but a very friendly admonition that this is great stuff. The United States needs to be number one and remain number one in this technology and it can only do that if we encourage our researchers, if we encourage the commercial sector and we do our very best to define precisely what nanotechnology is. And it's not something that's going to hurt us. It's something that's going to help us. innovations that improve the quality of life in many sectors. To fully realize this potential, we need to understand the SHE implications of nanoscale materials.

-- Systems need to be agreed and established through a cooperative effort among all the stakeholders, to address and resolve the key uncertainties, and to provide appropriate mechanisms for risk assessment and risk management.

-- DuPont is already collaborating actively on the development of a rigorous and consistent terminology, screening strategies, workplace safety measurements and controls, and a framework to define a systematic and disciplined process to identify, manage and reduce potential SHE risks of nanoscale materials across all lifecycle stages.

-- Federal and private funding for research that addresses safety, health and environmental concerns needs to be coordinated and strategically targeted to achieve the maximum impact in the shortest time.

*******************

Article 18

The promise of nanotechnology is startling. Benefits are anticipated in every facet of our lives; medicine, energy production, and electronics may be revolutionized by nanotechnology. But with this promise, there is also growing concern that the potential short and long-term impacts of nanomaterials on people and the environment are largely unknown. The very properties that make nanomaterials so promising in applications - their small size, large surface area, and unusual behavior when compared to their macro-scale materials -- make them potentially troubling when they come in contact with people and the environment. That is why today's hearing is so important.. 

I look forward to hearing today from our witnesses about these potential risks. What do we know now about these risks? What additional research is needed?

What are the federal government and the private sector doing to answer these questions?

Are we looking 4tcthe potential risks across the entire lifecycle of nanomaterials - manufacture, use and disposal?

As we move forward with our federal investments in nanotechnology, we need to maintain the public's trust. That will require smart investments in research, accurate assessments of risk, and steady communication with the public about what researchers know and don't know.

It will also require that environmental research and an appropriate regulatory framework for nanotechnology keep pace with the rapid growth of innovation and discovery. Without open communication and a trustworthy regulatory framework, misinformation and unfounded fear could undermine the potential economic rewards of nanotechnology.

I am happy that our witnesses represent a cross-section of stakeholders, because cooperation will be a necessary part of both conducting research and sharing its results with the public. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses about how much we know on this topic and how much we still have to learn.

*******************

Article 19


BOEHLERT: Hearing will come to order. 

I want to welcome everyone to this important hearing on the environmental and safety implications of nanotechnology, an issue that is likely to get increasing public attention over the next several years. But it's a matter that has already claimed the attention of this committee and it did so some time ago.

As I think everyone knows, the Science Committee has been a leader in pushing the federal government to invest in nanotechnology and in creating the statutory structure to be sure that we stay focused on nanotechnology research and development in a productive way. And our National Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, which the president signed just four years ago, made it clear that nanotechnology R&D had to include research on the environmental implications of the technology -- not as a sideline, but as a fundamental, integrated part of the research program. And we have been watching closely to make sure that happens.

The need for more research on the environmental and safety aspects of nanotechnology is made amply clear by our nongovernmental witnesses this morning, who speak in their written testimony with remarkable unity. Boy, that's refreshing to hear from this side. Their message is clear and it must be heeded: If nanotechnology is to fulfill its enormous economic potential, then we have to invest more right now in understanding what problems the technology might cause.

This is the time to act -- before we cause problems. This is the time to act -- when there is a consensus among government, industry and environmentalists. As Mr. Rejeski says in his testimony, this is our chance to "get it right" -- to learn from past mistakes we made with new technologies.

The writer Kurt Vonnegut once defined the information revolution as the idea that people could actually know what they're talking about, if they really want to. That's exactly the kind of information revolution we need in nanotechnology.

I'm pleased to say that the administration also seems to feel that way, as Dr. Teague will describe this morning. But we need an even greater commitment from the administration on this issue. We will be closely reviewing the so-called framework on this matter that is due out early next year, as well as the fiscal 2007 budget request due out in February, to ensure that funding is adequate.

So let me close by thanking our witnesses at the outset for the excellent, clear and persuasive testimony they have prepared for today's hearing. This is exactly the kind of hearing that the Science Committee should be having -- and that only we are likely to have -- that is, bringing attention to an important issue before it becomes a crisis, before it becomes hopelessly polarized, before all the debate becomes depressingly predictable.

So I look forward to today's hearing and I promise you that we will continue to press forward with this issue.

With that, the chair is pleased to recognize Mr. Gordon of Tennessee.

GORDON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, let me say I want to concur with your opening statement.

Also, I feel there's no question this committee understands the importance of nanotechnology and recognizes the strong justification for robust federal research investment. The committee has held several hearings to evaluate the promise of nanotechnology and in 2003, the committee took the lead in passing the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, which is now funded at over $1 billion a year. However, from the outset, we also recognize that risk may arise from this technology and that this is the subject of today's hearing.

Some research has suggested that nanoparticles could cause human health problems and may damage aquatic life. But research in this area is in its infancy and the tools are not available to identify and assess the risk associated with nanomaterials. Yet many products containing nanoparticles are already on the market, in cosmetics, clothing and other products. Some estimates are that there as many as 700 products already on the market.

Maybe there are no harmful effects. We simply do not know the necessary information to know if there are or aren't. What is clear is the commercialization of the technology is outpacing the development of sound space policies to assess and guard against adverse environmental health and safety consequences.

The horse is already out of the barn. Thus, prudence suggests the need for urgency in having the science of health and environment implications catch up to, or even better, surpass the pace of commercialization. We need to develop the tools and procedures to determine if nanomaterials are harmful and if so, what specific controls may be needed.

From the beginning, the National Nanotechnology Initiative has included funding for research to address environment, health and safety aspects of the technology. But funding levels have been fairly anemic. At present, the total funding in this area is under $400 million for the $1.1 billion initiative and the majority of the funding is concentrated at the National Science Foundation.

While I applaud the National Science Foundation's efforts, I am concerned that other key agencies remain minor players. For example, related funding at the Environmental Protection Agency is only $4 million.

So the main questions I have here are: Is the environment, health and safety research directed toward the most and important priorities? Is it funded at appropriate levels? And do all communities of interest have a voice in establishing the research goals and the priorities?

I also encourage any suggestions our witnesses may have on ways to improve the environment, health and safety component of the National Nanotechnology Initiative. In following up on our chairman's concern about nanotechnology reaching its full potential, I think that it's very important that we understand these issues, not only to protect ourselves in terms of whatever health impact there might be, but also in what you might call marketing.

We've seen how genetically altered foods -- in most situations I think folks would say that they are healthy and safe, yet there has been a resistance in the public in many parts of the world to these products because that research came behind the actual products. So if we are going to have successful commercialization and make the best use of these nanotechnology products, then it is important that the public be known well up front if they're safe, or if they're not safe, where they're not and how that can be corrected. So I hope we can learn more about that today.

And thank you, Mr. Chairman, for calling this hearing.

BOEHLERT: And thank you very much, Mr. Gordon, and thank you for your partnership. We're together on this important subject.

Just to set the stage, let me recite a couple of figures that I think will get your attention. The National Nanotechnology Initiative has grown from $464 million in fiscal year 2001 -- $464 million -- to a requested, in the administration's budget, $1.1 billion for fiscal year 2006. The Lux study -- this is very, very interesting -- the Lux study found that in 2004, $13 billion worth of products made available in the global marketplace incorporated nanotechnology.

That same report projects by 2014 -- just 10 years -- that figure will rise to $2.6 trillion, 15 percent of your projected manufacturing output in 2014. The report also predicts that in 2014, 10 million manufacturing jobs -- 11 percent of total manufacturing jobs around the globe -- will involve manufacturing these nanotechnology-enabled products. Enormous, enormous -- and you see why it has our attention.

With that, let me welcome our first panel, our very distinguished witnesses. And thank you at the outset for being facilitators for and resources for this committee: Dr. Clayton Teague, director, National Nanotechnology Coordination Office; Mr. Matthew Nordan, vice president of research in the aforementioned Lux Research; Dr. Krishna Doraiswamy, research planning manager, DuPont Central Research and Development; Mr. David Rejeski, director, Project Emerging Nanotechnologies, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; and finally, Dr. Richard Denison, senior scientist from Environmental Defense.

Gentlemen, it's a pleasure to have you here. We would ask that in your opening statements that you try to summarize in five minutes or so.

We'll not be that arbitrary -- we're not going to interrupt you in mid-sentence, mid-paragraph, or mid-thought, but if you would condense your opening statements, your full statements will be inserted in the record at this juncture. But if you try to summarize and capsulize your thinking, that allows for more dialogue between the two of us.

And one of the things I've learned after many years of experience on Capitol Hill -- we have distinguished panelists like you. It's a great opportunity for us to learn a lot.

With that, Dr. Teague, you're up first.

TEAGUE: Good morning. Mr. Chairman and members of the committee, thank you for inviting me to testify at this hearing. I'm certainly honored by your invitation.

Let me say at the outset that I and all members of the Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology Subcommittee -- which I'll refer to as the NSET -- appreciate greatly the productive relationship that we've had with Chairman Boehlert and his staff. These relationships have been very supportive in advancing all aspects of the NNI. So I want to say a very hearty thank you on behalf of everyone.

It is a privilege for me to speak on behalf of all of the 24 agencies that participate in the NNI and their representatives on the NSET subcommittee. For the past two and a half years, I've had the opportunity of working with staff members from these agencies. And from that experience, I want to assure you that they are sincerely dedicated to the missions of their agencies -- particularly including protecting public health and the environment.

Nanotechnology is a truly transformational technology, promising, as you just said, widespread applications in many fields, ranging from energy and medicine to agriculture and manufacturing. With such a powerful promise, the administration is committed to fostering this emerging technology.

The administration is equally committed to achieving these benefits in a responsible manner -- which means including strong considerations of the environmental health and safety. I'll just use the acronym "EHS implications" from now on. Toward this end, one of the overarching goals of the NNI as stated in its strategic plan is to support the responsible development of this new field.

Concerning the subject of this hearing, there are three key messages that I'd like to leave you with today. First, the agencies involved in the NNI are working together in a very proactive way and we've put in place broad and strong coordination and planning activities to understand and address the environmental health and safety implications of nanotechnology. Second, through the NNI, the federal government is funding forefront EHS research and much progress in understanding the EHS implications has been made. Finally, the NNI's supporting studies are providing useful preliminary information, but as again you just indicated, much research is still needed.

In all these efforts, the NNI is engaged in coordinating with industry in other countries to promote the responsible development of nanotechnology. In the limited time of my oral testimony today, I can only provide a few examples of our efforts to put in place an effective process to deal with the EHS implications of this technology. Let me just give you several of those.

First of all, the NSET subcommittee member agencies have committed about $39 million in FY '06 to fund research whose primary purpose -- let me just repeat that -- whose primary purpose is to understand and address EHS implications of nanotechnology. Wide- ranging research is under way and new results are coming in almost every day about this area.

Within the NSET subcommittee, we've formed a subgroup that has been active since August of '03 to identify and establish priorities for research needs that support greater authority for decision-making. This working group has participation from 50 members -- again, from 24 federal agencies -- and has proven to be an extremely effective forum for communication and coordination among the research and regulatory agencies. Regulatory authorities have been identified and stated publicly, certainly on the FDA Web site, the Consumer Products Safety Commission's Web site and the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health.

New recommendations for working safely with engineered nanoparticles have been published by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health to address concerns about working with free nanomaterials in the workplace. And one of the handouts today is that particular document, called "Approaches to Safe Nanotechnology." Regular actions have been taken and volunteer programs are being formulated.

For example, EPA is seeking stakeholder input for nanoscale materials underneath the Toxic Substances Control Act. Collaboration with industry is ongoing -- the NSET working groups, with industry- based collaborative boards for advancing nanotechnology, which addresses two of more of the major industrial sectors involved with nanotechnology. International partnerships and cooperation have begun in the area of standardization, including the International Organization for Standardization, the American National Standards Institute, the Organization for Economic and Cooperative Development and ASPM.

In conclusion, we know that much more research needs to be done and many questions remain unanswered. The answers will not come quickly, especially on a subject this complex. Research aimed to get answers will require a carefully designed and coordinated plan, with shared government and industry responsibility and collaboration.

We must evaluate research very carefully and if we discover that there are dangers associated with specific uses of certain materials, we should determine what precautions and restrictions will be necessary, including applying and adapting current regulatory authorities. Above all, we need to be guided by data and science- based decisions. Finally, we need to and we intend to communicate effectively and openly with the public. Nothing else will establish trust and credibility.

Thank you for the opportunity to speak today on this most important aspect of nanotechnology, and I will be happy to answer any of your questions.

BOEHLERT: Thank you, Dr. Teague.

Mr. Nordan?

NORDAN: Good morning Chairman Boehlert, Ranking Member Gordon, and members of the committee, and thank you for inviting me to testify today.

My company, Lux Research, advises corporations, investors, startups and public-sector institutions on exploiting nanotechnology for competitive advantage. And each of these groups shares an interest in today's topic -- the environmental health and safety, or EHS, risks of nanotechnology.

The United States needs nanotechnology applications to solve critical problems -- like treating chronic disease and developing new energy sources -- as well as to sustain the technology-based economic development that has driven the U.S. economy since World War II. We project that in 2014 about one-sixth of manufacturing output will incorporate emerging nanotechnology in some way.

The U.S. cannot be left behind in this field. However, we must also ensure that these applications are developed responsibly, without compromising the health of citizens or the environment.

Now, decades of lessons learned from coping with new materials have given businesses well-established risks and analysis frameworks that can be applied to nanotechnology, but only if two key requirements are met. First, businesses need a solid base of data about nanoparticle toxicology. Second, they need clarity about how agencies like the EPA and the Consumer Product Safety Commission will approach regulation.

Today, both of those requirements are absent. And this is slowing nanotech commercialization in the U.S. Many corporate executives and venture capitalists that we've spoken with have told us that they are limiting their nanotechnology programs until they can address EHS risks with more confidence.

There are two distinct classes of risks to address. On one hand, there are real risks -- the fact that some of the many diverse types of nanoparticles could be found to be harmful in real-world usage scenarios.

But on the other hand, there are perceptual risks. Even if every type of nanoparticle turned out to be harmless, public skepticism could still sharply limit the use of nanoparticles in products, similar to the situation that Mr. Gordon represented with genetically modified organisms in Europe.

Either class of risk could prevent the U.S. from reaping the full benefits of nanotechnology. And we believe that the federal government can take three key actions to address those real and perceptual risks and ensure responsible development of nanotech applications.

First, the government can wield its influence to unify splintered toxicology efforts. There are many initiatives worldwide that address nanoparticle toxicology and they're highly uncoordinated. As a result, they waste scarce resources available to investigate real risks and they also ignite a known fear factor for perceptual risk.

A globally recognized body of record is needed. Because the public will justifiably be skeptical of any industry-convened authority, we feel that this body must reside in the public sector.

We recommend that the U.S. National Science Foundation, the European Commission's Nanosciences and Nanotechnologies Unit and Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry establish an international nanoparticle toxicology authority to unite today's splintered efforts. The second the government can fund nanoparticle toxicology research, large corporations like DuPont have the resources and incentives to fund such studies on their own.

But the hundreds of startups that are active in the field do not. The only way that we see for nanotech commercialization to proceed rapidly through these companies while ensuring that toxicology studies are performed is for government to supply the funds.

Now, currently not enough money is available. Only 3.7 percent of the $1.05 billion U.S. NNI budget for 2006 is earmarked for research on EHS issues.

We recommend that the federal government establish a national nanotechnology toxicology initiative to address these issues. With an annual budget geared like an insurance policy of sorts for nanotech development, the annual funding required likely lies between $100 million and $200 million per year, two to four times today's spending.

To ensure commercial relevance, the initiative should allocate research funding to a market-based mechanism. Such a mechanism would require companies to submit their materials for testing as a condition of receiving government research grants.

Finally, government can eliminate regulatory ambiguity for industry. No regulatory agency that we're aware of has articulated a clear and unambiguous plan for how it will approach nanotechnology. The EPA serves as a telling case; it's relying on a working group to suggest voluntary guidelines that has taken a long time to come to decisions.

We feel that these dynamics will neither provide regulatory clarity nor do so in a timely manner. This regulatory clarity is needed both to address real risks, but also perceptual ones. Nongovernmental organizations that have called for outright bans on nanotech R&D have cited absent regulation as their key concern.

We recommend that the EPA -- as well as other agencies exposed to these issues, including the FDA, NIOSH and the CPSC -- establish and communicate clear plans for resolving regulatory ambiguity. These plans should describe the potential range of outcomes, the questions that will lead to choosing one outcome over another, the process for answering those questions and closed-ended timeframes for completion. We recommend completion dates no later than the end of 2006.

Asbestos was mined by the ton for 30 years before lab research showed it to be harmful. In contrast, nanoparticle toxicity experiments are being conducted proactively today in parallel with development of the materials themselves. Because of this, I'm confident that nanotech EHS issues will be addressed responsibly if they see wise action by government.

Thank you again for inviting me to speak, and I'm pleased to answer any questions.

BOEHLERT: Thank you very much, Mr. Nordan.

Dr. Doraiswamy?

DORAISWAMY: Good morning, Chairman Boehlert, Congressman Gordon, and members of the committee.

My name is Krish Doraiswamy and I'm DuPont's research planning manager responsible for coordinating and monitoring DuPont's R&D activities in nanoscale science and engineering. I appreciate this opportunity to address the research needed to address the safety, health and environmental implications of this new field.

I will focus on three main points: First, beneficial applications of nanoscale materials will emerge faster if we understand the environmental and safety implications. Second, cooperative efforts are needed to resolve key uncertainties and I will provide examples of what DuPont is doing today to address these uncertainties. Third, there is a need for more research funding that is strategically targeted on fundamental safety, health and environmental questions.

On the first point, with the new tools and techniques available today, we can design and fabricate new nanoscale materials that deliver entirely new properties. These new materials promise major advances in many fields.

The promise of nanoscale materials also raises new questions about how they might affect safety, health and the environment. Most of these questions are of particular relevance to nanoparticles that are engineered to exhibit new behaviors.

These questions need to be addressed as new nanomaterials begin to enter the field. However, in many cases, we will need better tools and much more data to be able to answer these questions.

Also, as has been pointed out, many important nanoscience discoveries and inventions are being made in universities and by startup companies, which may lack the experience and the resources to adequately address the fundamental safety, health and environmental questions. Such broadly relevant questions should be a part of the national agenda for research in nanomaterials.

My second point is that all stakeholders need to cooperate to develop safety standards and test methods, to coordinate research and generate reliable data and to establish appropriate oversight. DuPont is already active in several cooperative efforts. Here are some examples.

DuPont coordinated the launch this year of a consortium of more than 14 industry, academic and government organizations. This consortium is sponsoring a two-year research project that will help us understand workplace, safety and health issues relating to airborne nanoparticles.

We are also working with other members of the American Chemistry Council to develop recommendations regarding safety, health and environmental questions. We collaborate on toxicology research with the Rice University Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology and we are founding members of ICON, which is the International Council on Nanotechnology.

We have entered into a partnership with Environmental Defense to develop a practical framework to identify, manage and reduce potential risks of nanoscale materials. And in addition to these cooperative efforts, we have an active internal product stewardship program on nanomaterials, which includes toxicity research.

Efforts like ours are only a part of the answer. We recognize and applaud the efforts by several organizations to identify safety, health and environmental research needs. And we look forward to the emergence of a well-considered research strategy based on a broad scientific consensus on the key questions.

In particular, we need research on the physical, chemical and biological characterization of nanomaterials; the measurement of nanomaterials in the workplace and in the environment; understanding the environmental fate, including persistence and bioaccumulation; and developing and applying toxicity tests, including validated in vitro screening tests where these are practical.

Lastly, we need more public funding for strategically targeted research to complement the efforts of companies like mine. We need to quickly and systematically develop the measurement tools, test methods and rigorous peer-reviewed data that will enable nanotechnology to deliver on its promise.

This information is broadly relevant to practitioners and needs to be openly shared within the nano community. We therefore believe that this research should be publicly funded. Congress should ensure that adequate funding is provided, that the effort is strategically targeted and carefully coordinated and actively managed.

Thank you for the opportunity to testify before you today. I will be happy to answer questions.

BOEHLERT: Thank you very much, Doctor.

Mr. Rejeski?

REJESKI: Thank you, (inaudible), and Ranking Member Gordon (inaudible), for holding this hearing.

Before I share my ideas with you, I thought I'd like to share some observations from a group that really tends to be under- represented. These are quotes from a group in Spokane, Washington that we met with on nanotechnology in June.

I quote: "I found it interesting that so many government agencies are potentially responsible for nanotechnology. With so many agencies, bureaucracy hinders the process, because everybody's fighting over who is responsible," Terence (ph) added, "until something goes wrong."

At that point, there was a lot of laughter in the room. Mickey (ph) came back with, "Then nobody wants the responsibility. What kind of gridlock does that cause?" In every focus group we carried out across America, people talked as much about governance as they talked about science and technology.

The public is asking our government to answer four basic questions. The first one: Do we understand the risks associated with nanotechnology -- both today's risks and tomorrow's? Second, will our policies protect us and the environment from these risks? Third, where and how will you, the government, start talking to us about what you are doing, what you know and what you do not know? And finally, if something goes wrong with this technology, are you prepared?

Let me address each of these challenges in order. It was stunning enough to understand the risks to workers, consumers and the environment. I cannot tell you the answer to that. I can tell you what is needed to address this issue.

We need a full, transparent disclosure of all government-funded environmental health and safety-related research -- every single project, not just the monetary sum of the projects. This will allow us to identify gaps, to better partner with industry and government in other countries to fill the gaps and strategically invest or disinvest at the margins. We live in a world of fiscal constraints. So we can't assume that we're going to have another $100 million to spend on this.

Right now, we're in the process of putting together this inventory. We'll release such an inventory on November 29. I'd like to request the committee that they keep the docket open until the end of the month so we can submit, essentially, our initial analysis of the main research gaps.

But that's not going to be enough. We're going to be dealing with the risks of nanotechnologies for decades to come. These risks are going to become more complex, not simpler, especially as nanotechnology and biotechnology converge.

No single country will ever have enough money to address these risks. I believe that it's time to essentially start on international nano risks characterization projects that's modeled roughly on what we did with the Human Genome Project -- where we essentially prioritized risks on a global level, aligned teams of researchers to address these priorities and implemented an information infrastructure to support global collaboration.

In the end, we're going to have to leverage every single dollar, every single euro, every yen, everything we have -- both governments and industry. The public wants our many oversight and regulatory policies to protect us. I do not think anybody in this government right now can provide a clear answer. And certainly, the public, I can tell you, is not confident.

Our approach to the policies has been so far ad hoc and incremental. And we need a systemic analysis across agency statutes and programs, across agencies and across the entire international landscape -- which looks at regulations, voluntary agreements, information-based strategies, state and local ordinances and asks this question: Will this work now? Will it work five years from now and will it work 10 years from now?

I'm especially concerned that we lack any kind of coherent strategy to reach small businesses and startups with the appropriate information they're going to need to protect workers and the environment. Now it is time, I think, to ask the General Accountability Office -- as you asked the National Academy of Sciences two years ago, or to ask the National Academy of Public Administration -- to undertake within one year a systemic analysis of the government structure for nanotechnologies and develop a government-wide -- and I stress government-wide -- blueprint for the regulation and control of these technologies that will work not only today, but 10 years from now and 20 years from now. I think we owe that to consumers, to workers and also to industry.

The federal government and industry also has to address what Matthew called perception risks. In the end, the success of these technologies will depend on the public opening its mind and its pocketbook in embracing technologies. It's not a given, as we learned with nuclear power and with genetically modified organisms.

Studies show that people are excited about these technologies. But they have little trust right now in either government or industry to manage the risks and consistently ask for more transparency. They want more disclosure and they want more involvement.

We need to engage the public, not just try to educate them. U.S. government should set a goal to reach out and engage at least 3,000 citizens and public-opinion leaders around the country over the next year. This would require 20 to 25 town meetings, listening sessions and civic forums. But I think it would help build the foundation we need for greater public trust, confidence and acceptance of these nanotechnologies and ultimately create more viable and growing markets.

Finally, we need to prepare for the unexpected. Nanotechnology is essentially planned disruption. It's not something you want to get smug or overconfident about. We could be surprised in unpleasant ways, either by the technology itself or by people who mishandle it, mislabel it, or misuse the technology.

So we do anticipate and plan for and rehearse every possible scenario for misuse or accidents. I see no evidence whatsoever that this is happening anywhere in the government right now.

In conclusion, let me emphasize that to succeed, we're going to need two things. We'll need good science and we need good governance. Our project at the Wilson Center looks forward to working with this committee as you move forward.

Thank you.

BOEHLERT: Thank you very much.

Dr. Denison?

DENISON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Gordon, and other members of the committee. It's a pleasure to be here today.

I share the other witnesses' enthusiasm about the potential benefits that nanotechnology offers society. In my five minutes, however, I'd like to make one key point: that federal funding to understand the potential risks of nanomaterials must be greatly increased and that it's very much in the interests of proponents of this technology that this occur.

I'm going to offer you three reasons for why I believe this. First, limited data now available are flashing yellow lights that we should not ignore. Second, everyone is better off if government takes the lead in developing the infrastructure that will be needed to identify and assess potential risks of nanomaterials. And third, a major federal investment in this area is essential to avoid a public backlash against this promising set of technologies.

Fifteen years of unchecked spending directed to risk research amounts to only 4 percent of the total NNI budget for development of nanotechnology -- about $40 million. As detailed in my statement, industry, the insurance and investment communities, as well as environmentalists, are all united in calling for a dramatic increase in this level of funding. It's a truly remarkable convergence, as the chairman noted at the beginning.

We have called for funding to be increased to at least $100 million annually for at least the next several years. That's about 10 percent of the total NNI budget. And the rationale for that is fully laid out in those written statements, where we've compared to a number of other benchmarks why we think that number is the minimum that's needed.

Two other steps are needed, however, to ensure that the right research is done. First, the NNI, or another federal research agency, needs to be given the responsibility and the authority to develop an overall federal risk-research strategy and to implement that strategy across agencies. And second, we believe Congress should call on the NNI to request the assistance of the national academies, in particular the Board on Environmental Studies and Toxicology, in this effort.

Let me now turn to the three arguments I made earlier. First, the flashing yellow light. Concerns about nanomaterials arise from two sources: First, their novel properties and behavior. And second, some rather surprising results that have occurred in the first studies done.

These showed that nanomaterials can cross from the lung when inhaled directly into the blood. They can even cross from our navels directly into our brains. Some of these particles are able to evade the body's usual mechanisms for defense and some of them can directly enter cells, where they possibly actually interfere with cellular machinery.

While many of these findings directly implicate the harm of these materials, none of them are saying that we shouldn't ignore these behaviors and not look any further. Let me stress that all of the toxicology work that's been done to date has only been short-term in nature. We have no chronic toxicity testing that's looked, for example, at reproductive effects, or at long-term effects like cancer.

But even short-term studies have yielded a number of surprises. For example, when carbon nanotubes are instilled into the lungs of rodents, they consistently have been shown to quickly cause inflammation and also the presence of unusual cell masses called granulomas. One of these studies actually used a dose that was equivalent to what a worker would get in only several weeks of exposure at the current OSHA standard for airborne particles in the workplace. This study also found that fibrosis developed in exposed animals, even in parts of the lungs that were far removed from where the particles actually deposited.

Researchers that were developing nanoparticles to target and kill tumor cells also found a rather significant surprise. All 20 of the materials that they developed for this purpose were found to damage other organs -- liver, spleen and kidney. And these effects were only observed because of the extensive testing that is done in the course of drug development to look for adverse side effects.

That kind of testing is not routinely required in the vast majority of other applications. In short, there's growing evidence that nanomaterials can get into vital organs and cells and when they get there, they can do damage.

My second argument: Government needs to develop what I call the enabling infrastructure to address nanomaterials' potential risks. This includes standardizing methods and developing tools to do other things, from monitoring of nanomaterials in the environment to understanding how they move through living organisms. Government- funded research is essential to create a database of information about model or representative materials.

And none of this is to say that companies don't have the obligation ultimately to test their own products prior to commercialization. That is clearly an obligation that remains. But industry needs the infrastructure that I've described in order to do its job.

Last but not least, my third argument: Failing to make these kinds of investments threatens the future of nanotechnology. We remember genetically modified organisms, where rapid commercialization coupled with a failure to address the risks up front led to a public backlash, closed markets and product bans.

Let me end by saying that nanotechnology offers an enormous opportunity to apply the lessons that we've learned from prior mistakes, identify and take the necessary steps to address the risks up front. In short, we believe there's an opportunity here to get nanotechnology right the first time.

Thank you, and I'd be very happy to answer questions.

BOEHLERT: Thank you very much, Dr. Denison.

Thank all of you for your informed testimony. And we are considering that along with input from a number of other sources as we deliberate.

Mr. Nordan, I couldn't agree more with your statement. You said the U.S. must not be left behind in this enterprise. Where are we now? I mean, when you're looking around the world, you want to see what the competition is doing. Where are we now? Are we ahead and are we running the risk of falling behind? Give me your assessment from now.

NORDAN: We authored a report earlier this year on this topic. And we tried to rank 14 nations globally on two things: on the level of nanotechnology activity in the country -- how many papers being authored, startups being generated, et cetera, on an absolute scale -- and then secondly, on the track record of the country in being able to convert science and technology innovation into inward investment and GDP growth and jobs.

On those two metrics, the U.S. actually comes out the top on nanotechnology activity globally and comes out near the top on technology development strengths. So we would put the U.S. in the first position in the world today when it comes to nanotech commercialization.

That said, there are other countries that are catching up very rapidly -- China being a great example, which has gone from the world's fifth to second in nanotechnology publication in about 10 years and which at this point spends, at purchasing-power parity, when you correct for how far a unit of currency goes in the country, second only to the United States on nanotechnology research.

Now, what's unique, actually -- about a month ago, I had the opportunity to do on-site visits on the ground to 15 nanotechnology startups and research labs in mainland China -- in Shenzhen, Beijing and Shanghai. And what you find there, compared with the U.S., is that nanoparticles used in things like coatings and composite materials are far more dense in terms of commercialization than in the United States. It's very typical to be able to go to a building- supply store, to a retailer, and find paints that contain nanoparticles, or plastic materials that contain nanoparticles in China that are somewhat absent in the U.S.

Now, some of the reason for that is that there's been a very big focus on specifically these nanoparticles. Some of this is that the Chinese institutions don't have the same EHS structures that exist in the U.S. That does not mean in any way that we should relax one iota the amount of rigor we approach EHS issues with in the United States, but it does mean that we have to supply a base of data and eliminate regulatory ambiguity rapidly in order to keep up.

BOEHLERT: Thank you very much.

That was a very good thumbnail sketch. One of the things that always concerns us as policymakers, is that we have to come to the realization -- we don't know what we don't know. And so, given the large gaps in knowledge -- this is a broad question I'd like all the panelists to address -- given the large gaps in knowledge that may take many years to fill, how should we ensure protection of public health and the environment in the interim? I mean, what immediate steps do we need to take?

Dr. Teague?

TEAGUE: Well, first of all, I would like to say that we have recognized exactly what you said within the federal government and particularly within the regulatory agencies. And that's for the reason that it's been stepping forward to put into place interim measures until we do learn more.

The document that I mentioned, from the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, is put forward as a preliminary document based upon what we do know now to try to encourage everyone to take appropriate measures. In the lack of knowledge that we have about the potential risk associated with nanoscale particles, it has been widely and enthusiastically accepted by almost everyone that we've introduced it into, including at the International Organization for Standardization that I attended just last week. All countries saw it as a major step forward to have this document available to protect as best we know people in the workplace.

If you go to the Web site, it's there available for anyone, including small manufacturers -- anyone can get access to the document readily. It's also stated that it is a preliminary document and that as more is learned, it will be updated.

If you also go to the Web sites of the Food and Drug Administration, Consumer Products Safety Commission and other of the regulatory agencies, they have put forward what we call their statements about how they will interpret their regulatory authorities with respect to these particles. All are stating that currently, within the available regulatory authorities, they see full capabilities for covering and preventing any adverse effects on public health or the environment as we now understand it.

BOEHLERT: Thank you very much.

Would anyone else care to comment on that one?

Dr. Denison?

DENISON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

We've advocated for a number of interim steps as the data are developed to look at the actual risks. One is that in the context of workplace safety, we believe that companies would be prudent if they looked at examining, monitoring of the health of workers that are potentially exposed to this -- for example, so that we develop a baseline and we have, over the course of time, the ability to know whether an effect is happening that we don't maybe understand yet.

Second, that materials in the workplaces really should be handled in a way -- in the absence of data to the contrary -- that is basically as if they were hazardous materials. In other words, we will be doing everything we could to eliminate the possibility of exposure occurring unless we know that that exposure is safe.

And thirdly, we are very concerned about the subcategory of applications of nanomaterials that are dispersive in nature -- that is, that deliberately, or as the result of the use of a product, disperse materials into the environment. In the absence of data that indicates that fast dispersion is actually harmless, we think those uses really ought to be looked at very, very carefully and probably avoided or slowed down until the data generation catches up.

BOEHLERT: Thank you very much.

And I'd like to go on, but I see the committee interest here. My red light's on and...

Something compelling, Mr. Rejeski?

REJESKI: Yes. I would just answer this. I mean, every week we get calls from small and medium-sized companies. You have to realize that the nanotech industry is going to be -- our industries will be dominated by small startup firms. And they're asking the right questions and they cannot find the information.

So I think it's interesting to put this guidance out, but if a company can't find it within two mouse clicks of their computer, you've lost them. So that essentially, the government has got to be able to also develop a portfolio of push strategies to get to these companies -- using our extension services, using technical assistance programs at universities -- because they just don't have the time.

Essentially, they're in a kind of Darwinian struggle to get their product to market. So again, they're asking the right questions. They have a real hard time finding the right answers. So I think we need to think about how do we reach those people.

BOEHLERT: Thank you. And that's constructive and I do appreciate that.

It's a popular sport around the country to be critical of government. But you know, we do most things right, quite frankly.

And every time I fly in a plane, you know, I'm so thankful that we've got the FAA. Every time I go to the pharmacy to get a prescription filled, I'm so thankful that we've got the Food and Drug Administration.

But the point is we can always find ways to do things better, to be more immediately responsive to an identified national need. And that's the whole purpose of this hearing and the work we're about. So the constructive comments you've offered are not going unnoticed and we intend to pursue that.

But I want to pursue my colleagues on the committee and be mindful of their interests. So, with that, my time is expired.

Mr. Gordon?

GORDON: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

As the chairman pointed out, we do have time limitations, so I want to try to address some of these issues cumulatively here, or jointly with all of you. Did any of the witnesses not agree that the current funding level under the National Nanotechnology Initiative is inadequate with the support of the environment, health and safety research? Does anyone not agree with that?

TEAGUE: Let...

GORDON: Do you want to disagree with that? You think we're spending enough?

TEAGUE: Well, let me clarify the amount that's being spent on that.

GORDON: Well, let's get some base information, then we can go to that. So do you disagree that we're not spending enough?

TEAGUE: It seems that the amount that's being spent currently...

GORDON: Is adequate?

TEAGUE: Within the amount that we have...

GORDON: I'm not trying to be argumentative. I just want to try to get through some questions, then we can talk about it.

TEAGUE: OK.

GORDON: Do you think that we're spending enough on the research for the health aspects of nanotechnology?

TEAGUE: Considering all that goes into that number and its supporting amount, I guess I would say yes.

GORDON: OK, you think we are spending enough. Does anybody agree with him that we are? OK. So, just for the record, I guess you're saying -- you're a company man and that the company's doing all right. So the rest don't seem to agree.

Now, some of the witnesses suggest that the current level should be at least $100 million. And I would assume, Mr. Teague, you would think that $100 million is too much to spend.

So let me ask -- did the rest of the witnesses think that it would be a good level, or could you spend less than that? Does anybody think there should be less than $100 million?

Yes, sir -- Mr. Rejeski?

REJESKI: I don't think we can actually answer that question. I could tell you right now that based on the preliminary analysis we've done, we've got $23 million of federal funding in our database. We've got 154 projects across eight agencies.

That's not everything, but we've looked at it and we've found some areas where we think the government is doing actually a fairly good job and they should be congratulated. We found some zeros. We've found some really large gaps.

We don't think there's enough being spent on safety issues, explosion hazards -- that sort of thing that could be caused by nanomaterials in the workplace. So I think, again, I hate to base the argument on just broad numbers, because I think we really need to dive deep into the actual funding levels. And I think that's what's going to help...

GORDON: I know it goes back to your original testimony. I know you're reinforcing that. But I'm just trying to get some benchmarks. So you don't know whether $100 million would be a good place?

REJESKI: I don't know.

GORDON: OK. So, we've got one no, and we've got one don't know.

And I think in the rest of your testimony, you said either $100 million or more, is that correct? OK.

Again, I'm just trying to get some benchmarks here.

TEAGUE: May I comment, sir?

GORDON: Yes, sir, certainly.

TEAGUE: Seems to me the last time, I didn't fill out my comments that I would like to say relative to whether or not it's the right amount of money. I very much agree with what Dave Rejeski just said. But I emphasized in my opening remarks that the amount of money that is being invested in EHS implications research -- it's stated as the research and development whose primary purpose is to investigate environmental health and safety implications. So all of the funding that's being done right now...

GORDON: OK, I've got a limited amount of time. I'm not questioning whether you're doing the best you can with the resources you have. I'm not questioning in any way. I'm just trying to determine whether we should do more. That's what I'm getting at.

So let me ask the witnesses as a whole this: If no new money were available for research in this area, would you recommend reprogramming some of the existing funds in the National Nanotechnology Initiative? Does anyone not agree with reprogramming if there would not be additional funds available? Would you just raise your hands and we'll let you say something about that.

NORDAN: I think the point that I would make, to go back to Mr. Rejeski's comments, is that a pretty fine-grained understanding of what the gaps are, down to the level of specific materials and specifically which projects would be required. That said, there are some places that jump out as fairly significant holes. The biggest one that we've identified is the risk of nanoparticles that...

GORDON: I guess what I'm trying to say -- I'm trying to get a calibration here. These are difficult times to try to get additional funds and so it's unlikely we're going to see -- matter of fact, nanotechnology has been treated very generously in terms of the rest of the budget. Now, we'd like to see more, but in a relative term it has been very generous.

And so I don't think we're going to get a lot of additional funds. Is the concern about additional research into safety enough that you would recommend reprogramming existing funds to do that?

NORDAN: Definitely one option. There are also other options...

GORDON: Please, I know that. But that's the option I'm talking about right now.

NORDAN: I think that would be feasible.

GORDON: Is there anyone who would not? Because Mr. Ehlers is trying to push the button on me here. Is there anyone here who would not agree that it is enough of a problem or a concern that if we can't get additional funds, that we should reprogram funds? Would anybody disagree with that statement? Raise your hand.

OK, go on ahead, Mr. Teague.

TEAGUE: If I look at the agencies which are currently funding the work on research for environmental health and safety implications, they're within the National Science Foundation, they're within the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, they're within other components of HHS, or the National Institutes of Health. So if you say that you need to increase, let's say, the amount of funding that would be available to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health...

GORDON: No, I said within the National Nanotechnology Initiative.

TEAGUE: They're one of the agencies that is contributing to the NNI, a very significant one. Then, where would you pull it? Would you pull it from the other parts of NIH that are investing in cancer research?

GORDON: That's one of the questions I'd be asking you. But if we're trying to establish priorities, it would be most likely from funds that are allocated for nanotechnology research...

TEAGUE: Some of those are important...

(CROSSTALK)

GORDON: ...and that would be some reprogramming there.

TEAGUE: Some of those which are investigating new treatments and new methods of diagnosing cancer?

GORDON: Well, if you want to put it in the most harsh way, that's the question I'm asking you. Would it be enough of a priority to slow down that cancer research to make sure that it was being done in an appropriate way? And that's the question I'm asking you. And you're saying, what?

TEAGUE: I'm saying no at the present time.

GORDON: But everyone else is saying yes, is that true? Is that correct?

DENISON: Could I offer just one comment on this? I think there are two types of reprogramming. One is you take money from the application side and move it to the implication side that you've been talking about.

Even within the implications research, though, there's some rather striking things. Almost two-thirds of that money that's devoted to EH&S research is in the National Science Foundation, which is probably not where I would suggest that much of that amount of money ought to be put. The agencies that have as a prime mission understanding health and environmental implications have a much, much smaller piece of that pie.

GORDON: We don't live in a perfect world. We have to deal within these circumstances that we have, and that's what I'm trying to get from you -- those kinds of priorities.

Thank you.

EHLERS: Indeed, we don't live in a perfect world, so I'll declare the gentleman's time is expired. I apologize for being late. I was detained in another meeting, but I would without objection enter my statement in the record.

So ordered.

A normal procedure in this committee is that the chair and the ranking member ask questions, then the chairs of the relevant subcommittees and their ranking members ask questions and then we go to the rest. But I have a special request and I'm next in line, and after that Mr. Wu, Mr. Inglis, and Ms. Hooley, if she arrives.

But if none of those four object, I would like to recognize Mr. Gutknecht, who has a burning question he wishes to ask and has to depart for another meeting.

Without objection, so I recognize the gentleman from Minnesota.

GUTKNECHT: Chairman, I don't know how burning it is, but I do have to leave and I was among the first people here, and so I'll jump in line.

Mr. Nordan, you raise the issue, and I have a very keen interest. On the Agriculture Committee, we have had this ongoing -- you brought up the issue -- but we've had this ongoing fight over biotechnology and what it really means.

And I've often said that the pharmaceutical companies and the seed companies who develop these technologies have done a marvelous job of selling the technology to our farmers. They have done a miserable job of explaining it to the consumer. And as a result, we continue to have this battle not only in Europe -- principally in Europe, but even here in the United States.

I guess I'd like to have you perhaps develop this thought. What responsibility does industry have to do a better job, not only of explaining the benefits of this new nanotechnology to potential industrial or commercial users, but more importantly, of explaining what this all means to the consumers and private individuals? So perhaps you could talk about that and if anybody else wants to talk about it -- because I'm really worried that we're going to go down the same path we did with biotech corn and cotton and beans and so forth.

NORDAN: I'd argue that's happening today. Let me talk a bit about the situation and then talk about the challenge.

The situation is a little puzzling. When it comes to real risks, they're somewhat bounded. The field of nanoparticles is extremely broad, involving ceramic nanoparticles, metal nanoparticles, carbon- based ones -- some of which are just smaller versions of existing structures, some of which are unique structures that only form at the nanoscale.

And if one of those proves to pose an environmental health and safety risk, there are boundaries around it. It doesn't necessarily apply to all the different forms.

When it comes to perceptual risks, though, it kind of only takes one bad apple to spoil the bunch, in terms of public perception. So it's a significantly challenging situation.

And it's more challenging than biotech, because it's fairly straightforward to put some boundaries around what constitutes biotechnology -- manipulating genes in order to achieve desired effects in living organisms. Nanotechnology applications are so diverse -- ranging from structural materials to cancer treatments to energy sources -- that it's very difficult to encapsulate them in a sentence-or-two phrase that you could understand.

Given the importance and the primacy of perceptual risks in getting consumer adoption of products based on these technologies, it comes as something of a shock to us that for the most part, industry -- and specifically startup companies -- have done exceedingly little to engage the public on these topics. In fact, when it comes to startup companies, there are many cases where they would seem to be avoiding raising the issue -- because anything that could possibly scare away venture capitalists or keep them from being able to obtain the next funding round is not a topic not to address behind the scenes, but not something they want to raise publicly -- which we believe in the long term is very self-destructive.

There are some companies out there -- like BASF in Germany and DuPont in the United States -- that have done an exceptional job of partnering publicly and communicating publicly about these issues. But that's the exception to the rule and it's something that from a business perspective is a self-inflicted wound in the long term.

GUTKNECHT: What can we do about that? Because I share your concern and that's why I raise the point. And I think we're going to get a long ways down this road before many an industry really understands how serious this is.

NORDAN: And there are folks on the panel who have more experience than I do in public engagement with consumers on new technologies, so I would turn to Dr. Doraiswamy and Mr. Rejeski and Dr. Denison for that.

GUTKNECHT: Thank you.

DORAISWAMY: Thank you.

I think the question that you raise is a very good one and a very appropriate one. We believe that in order to ensure that there is no miscommunication or misunderstanding of what nanotechnology is and what it can deliver, we do need a more effective process of communication and outreach, more transparency in this area than maybe people have been accustomed to, and more collaboration among all of the stakeholders.

As an example of the kind of confusion that exists, most of the concerns and questions that we have been discussing today about safety, health and environmental implications are in fact confined to nanoparticles. The fact is that the word "nanotechnology" is much more broadly applied to other kinds of materials that do not involve nanoparticles; for example, nanostructured membranes that might have pores that are nanosized and could be used in applications like protecting against chemical and biological checks in a powel (ph). These are materials that have very different characteristics from nanoparticles, but if we put them all under the same umbrella, there's a tendency to confuse them and what the implications might be.

So in order to resolve some of this confusion, I think we do need a more consistent vocabulary. And the standards organizations, I think, are working on that.

And we do need -- I don't think any one company alone can address the confusion. I do think we need a coordinated effort to identify where the confusion is likely to arise, the structure or the space, and partition it appropriately and address our communications to where there's the greatest possibility for miscommunication.

GUTKNECHT: Anyone else? Yes, please.

REJESKI: I think one of the things that was striking as we went around and ran focus groups around the country and talked to people about nanotech is that the public -- they didn't focus a lot on the thing, whether it was the gadget, the golf ball, the cosmetics. They were asking -- and they really wanted answers -- to a much larger set of contextual questions.

They were saying, "Before we trust anybody, we want to know -- who's developing this? Who's promoting it? Is this being hyped?" And they want a balanced message. They're not afraid of hearing bad news. They don't expect a no-risk society. They want to know who's evaluating it and they want to know: If something goes wrong, who's responsible?

And that's why I think essentially reducing perceptual risks has an awful lot to do with the government's message, because the government is really quite often responsible for doing a lot of this. They ask about, "Can we trust the FDA or the EPA? What are these people doing?"

So I think it really says a balanced message -- they don't want to be hyped with this stuff. They want to hear from the government in terms of the context. Are we creating a context that they can believe in -- did they trust the risk managers, essentially?

GUTKNECHT: But how would you respond? I mean, the USDA and lots of other government scientists have released reports about biotechnology used in plants. There's never been a study that indicated there was any health risk whatsoever and yet there's still this great perception out there that there is a risk.

REJESKI: I think a lot of that has to do with the fact that we also aren't engaging effectively with a lot of the people who are shaping that perception. So that means, I think, a much better advisory strategy with the media or the nongovernmental organizations. Essentially, they got ahead of us on that message. And I think the same thing could happen here.

I think right now, we have a small window of opportunity -- and I think it's about a year -- where we can actually engage. And I think the social dynamics of this whole area are changing rapidly right now. There's an awful lot of small, extremely media-savvy NGOs getting involved. These people know how to get the attention of the press and they can raise a lot of concerns very, very quickly...

EHLERS: The gentleman's time has expired.

Next we will turn to the gentlewoman from Texas, Mrs. Johnson.

JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.

I guess what I really would like to know up front is, in doing the research, how protected is the environment around the research. And the researchers -- are they protected?

Yes?

DENISON: I think you've put your finger, Congresswoman, on a real issue -- that much of the development of this technology is happening in universities and small research facilities that may have a handful of staff that never heard of EPA or OSHA or other agencies and are very ill-equipped to understand even the material that they are working with. So, as others have said, outreach to that community and getting practical advice that can be delivered directly to people that are busy and don't have this as their primary concern is a critical part of addressing the supply chain, if you will. The beginning of that supply chain is leading to these issues. So I think that aspect of the occupational exposure, all the way upstream in the development phase, is a critical gap in the current structure.

TEAGUE: May I comment on that?

JOHNSON: Sure.

TEAGUE: From the federal government's perspective, we have been reaching out -- as I indicated in my opening comments, very poor, actually -- trying to reach all the people who are working with nanoscale materials. The grants themselves specify that all consideration must be given to environmental health and safety of the researchers. It's stated in all the grants that are awarded by the National Science Foundation, and almost all the agencies that award grants or contracts to researchers have specifications in there for protecting the researchers.

I mentioned earlier the document that has been developed to try to communicate to researchers the necessity for them to exercise appropriate precautions in working with nanoscale materials by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. That is being widely disseminated. In fact, coming up next month will be a major meeting of the directors of almost all the national centers on nanotechnology, both within the Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation and the Department of Defense, at which this information will be focused upon and people will be informed about the recommended practices for wanting to protect people in the workplace and in the laboratory, as you just indicated.

JOHNSON: A university in my area, the University of Texas at Dallas, is very, very interested in nanotechnology research. And I don't know if they've hit your radar screen or not, but I wonder if they have the information disseminated to them.

TEAGUE: Whether this particular university has it or not, I would have to ascertain. We can make sure that they do. It has been announced on the NNI Web site -- we've made it available there. It's actually highlighted on the opening Web page of the NNI Web site -- thousands of new visitors per day to that Web site. So I hope they have it. If not, we will ensure that they do.

If I may go back to -- someone commented about how many clicks it takes to get to the NIOSH information. It's actually two clicks to get to that information, just to make sure they did. It's not deeply embedded in the NIOSH Web site. It's very readily accessible.

JOHNSON: Any other comments?

Thank you very much for your time.

Yes, go ahead.

DORAISWAMY: Since I'm representing a company that actually does work with these kinds of materials, I wanted to share our perspective. For all materials that our research professionals and manufacturing workers work with, we have very disciplined and demanding standard operating procedures to minimize exposure risk and avoid releases.

We have over the years developed very disciplined process safety management procedures and process hazards analyses. These reviews are very well-established in DuPont and they address facilities, engineering controls, personal protective equipment, work practices and so on. We are also, as was pointed out earlier, in the process of developing a framework with Environmental Defense that we hope you share widely on how this kind of discipline can be adopted and applied as guidelines for nanoscale materials.

JOHNSON: Thank you very much.

EHLERS: The gentlewoman's time has expired.

I'm next in line and I have a question for Dr. Teague relating to Mr. Nordan's testimony that suggests that a life-cycle perspective that considers manufacturing use and disposal is needed to consider the potential risks of nanotechnology. Mr. Nordan also suggests that the greatest uncertainty about risk arises from end-of-product-life issues. Your testimony, as far as I've determined, does not mention disposal as an area of concern.

I have a very personal concern about that -- in fact, that's what got me into politics originally at the county level, when we had terrible solid-waste problems and re-treat flowing into rivers and so forth. I had an environmental interest, so I ran for office in order to clean up the mess. And I've spent more time in landfills, dumps, garbage shredders and incinerators than I suspect anyone in the room.

What always concerns me is, we always seem to find out these things too late. Nickel-cadmium batteries, for example, went into landfills for years before they finally said, "No, you have to return them to the store and have them disposed of properly." So I'm wondering if you agree with Mr. Nordan's comments about this.

I've always argued, by the way, that disposal is the wrong term to use. And when I took office I tried to get the name changed from the County Disposal to the County Storage Facility. Just because you put it on the ground and put dirt over it, that doesn't mean it's gone. It's not disposed of -- it's still there. We're storing it.

And so I have the same concern about nanotechnology products. What is the situation? To what extent are you looking at disposal areas or end-of-life issues and how does that factor into the equation?

TEAGUE: It not being mentioned in my testimony either, the written or the oral, is definitely an oversight. Because certainly, the waste stream, the fate and transport of nanoscale materials in the environment, is something that is being looked at very carefully by a number of the federal agencies, in particular the Environmental Protection Agency.

Just recently, in fact, in fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year 2006, there has been a joint activity between the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Science Foundation, the National Institute for Environmental Health Sciences and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health -- specifically, issuing a joint solicitation to conduct research on the fate and transport of nanoscale materials in an environment resulting from manufacturing or any other movement of those particles into the environment. This year, it's projected for '06 that this solicitation will be on the order of $8 million a year from all four of those agencies to study this particular aspect of both the manufacture and the eventual disposal of any products that have nanoscale materials in the process.

EHLERS: Well, a very important aspect is the risk calculations. And I'm a little concerned that you say this was an oversight in your testimony. That's frequently the problem. People don't think about these issues until it's too late.

Are you looking at the risk factors in each of these areas of end of product life as compared to manufacturing and research and so forth? How are you approaching it?

TEAGUE: Certainly there has been a significant amount of effort put into looking at the risk associated with not only the manufacture -- both in terms of exposure to the worker -- but also, there's been some work on what they would call the environmental footprint of different manufacturing processes that have been funded, again, by the National Science Foundation and the Environmental Protection Agency.

Just recently, there's been a paper issued by Rice University comparing the manufacturing footprint for the manufacturing of nanoscale materials to a lot of other types of manufacturing. In the conclusion from that study is that the footprint environmentally for manufacturing nanoscale materials is certainly less than some of the more conventional manufacturing processes like oil refining. Many of the manufacturing processes were actually compared and considered to have an environmental footprint comparable to that for the manufacture of aspirin and the manufacturing of wine. So that kind of thing and the risk associated with both the manufacture and the eventual fate and transport of it is being looked at quite carefully.

EHLERS: Just yesterday, I met with the new assistant administrator of the EPA in charge of gaps in research and development, Dr. Gray, who is a specialist in risk assessment. I encourage you to have a conversation with him. I want to make sure you're working together on this -- the end-of-life issue and doing the risk calculations appropriately.

I see two other hands up.

Mr. Rejeski?

REJESKI: Last year, we worked with people at Yale University, and we did an inventory of the life-cycle analyses that have been done and that are under way for nano-based products, and we would be glad to share that with the committee. One of the issues that they raised -- and I think it's an important one -- is whether the life-cycle analyses that we used with normal materials will actually work with nanoscale materials.

Because a lot of the risk assessment which you alluded to essentially relates the mass of the material to the risk. And we know from nanoscale materials that the risk is now associated with surface area, surface charge, surface properties -- the morphology of the particle.

So I think that's a very, very important question. It's a huge question about whether the existing suite we have of doing these kinds of analyses from cradle to grave will actually be transferable to these new nano-based products. And we haven't answered that yet.

EHLERS: I would appreciate it if you would provide us with that, and without objection, that will be entered in the record for this hearing.

Dr. Denison?

DENISON: Just one other quick comment: I think you've put your finger on what amounts to a potential regulatory gap. For example, the FDA has authority to look at the use of nanomaterials in products like sunscreens and pharmaceuticals. We know that those products ultimately get washed down the drain and end up in the water supply. And the ability of the FDA to actually look at the potential impacts downstream is quite limited.

One recent scientific finding that really amplifies the concern you're raising is that buckyballs -- these carbon soccer-ball-type materials -- in water actually can become quite water-soluble and are very potent killers of bacteria -- bactericides. Now, you might think that's a good thing, but we like to say, you want to kill bacteria perhaps in a hospital bed, but not in a riverbed.

So if these materials are actually getting into the environment and they're killing bacteria that are at the base of the food web and ecosystem, that could be a really significant impact. So the life- cycle perspective you're talking about is critical.

EHLERS: Thank you. And I suggest, Dr. Teague, that you also talk to the FDA about these risk-assessment issues.

My time has expired. We are very Pavlovian in the Congress. When the bells ring, we go vote.

Mr. Carnahan, gentleman from Missouri, I'm sorry. Gave you five minutes.

CARNAHAN: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make mine quick.

First, for the panel, you've discussed potential risk and preliminary studies with the impact of these nanomaterials. Are there any documented human health impacts out there that you know of? Are we still looking at potential risk?

NORDAN: Well, there are analogues. If your question is, are there studies that exist, looking at, for example, the impact of exposure to fullerenes on human beings over X years of time, definitely not. Those materials haven't been made in enough quantity or released in free form in any way that you'd see any empirical results.

Probably the best analogue would be a very large body of research on what are usually referred to as ultrafine particles, that are particles with nanosized dimensions that are formed accidentally, either through things like welding or diesel fuel exhaust or volcanic eruptions that have been shown to have deleterious impacts on human health. In fact, that existing base of research on particles that weren't purposely engineered is what initially sparks much of the concern over engineered nanoparticles.

CARNAHAN: Anyone else on the panel?

TEAGUE: Just to emphasize what Matthew was saying, I think it's very important that the committee be aware -- I suspect you are aware -- but there's a significant difference between the incidental nanoparticles, which have been with us for many years, and what we're calling the engineered nanomaterials.

The real power of nanotechnology is that we have the capability to engineer in a controllable way the property of matter at this nanoscale. That has really important implications in terms of what was mentioned relative to, say, the buckyballs.

Because we have this capability to control things and engineer things at the nanoscale, we can study them. We know how to now treat the buckyballs so that they will not be detrimental to human health or the environment. We know how to functionalize the surface of these small particles in such a way to make them more benign to both public health and to the environment.

So we happily are at an early stage where we can not only study these before the widespread application of the technology and production of large volumes of products. We can understand their behavior and we have sufficient control where we can engineer them to be what we would like the properties to be and hopefully avoid the negative properties in terms of adverse impact upon the environment or upon public health.

CARNAHAN: And lastly, very quick -- I'd like to have you grade our current crop of scientists and researchers first and then how you think we're doing with training our next generation to deal with this new science of nanotechnology.

TEAGUE: My own assessment is that we have in the United States some of the most outstanding researchers in the world in the field of nanotechnology. Further, primarily through the National Science Foundation, we have educational programs trying to bring them abreast of the whole field of nanotechnology from K-12 on up through the graduate schools.

Outstanding programs are in that area. Just recently, the National Science Foundation formed centers for informal learning about nanotechnology. This is to go through museums, to reach out directly to all the public to get them more informed about nanotechnology and hopefully to attract many young people into this new field. This is probably one of the new fields which offers as much excitement to draw young people into science and engineering as we've had for a long time.

So I think we have a lot of extremely good scientists in the country, I think some of the leading ones in the world. And I think we're putting in place efforts across the entire age spectrum to draw new people into the field.

CARNAHAN: I'm going to wrap that up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

EHLERS: Thank you very much. We're cutting it short. We have a series of three votes. It'll take us at least 45 minutes to get back, so we'd like to wrap this up.

Dr. Schwarz, a quick question and...

SCHWARZ: I've just got a quick question, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much -- a quick statement.

I represent at least part of the University of Michigan, which has taken the lead in a lot of lot of nanotechnological advances. And I'm also a physician.

And this is more of a statement than a question -- but I want, when you formulate guidelines for people engaged in all the different forms of nanotechnology, to do this with a great deal of thought, with a great deal of objectivity. And may I please suggest that we do not do anything as we formulate these guidelines that would allow the Luddites to come out of the wall in this country -- like they have in other areas of research which I don't have to name -- and have put us in sixth or seventh or eighth or ninth or God knows what place in that type of research.

We need to be number one in nanotechnology. And the first thing -- and a couple of you have tried to do this this morning and I applaud you for it -- is to find precisely what nanotechnology is. It's not something really exact that you can pack in a box. You talked about different materials. You talked about the filters, which I thought was very, very good.

So it's a very wide field and my friendly admonition is: Please, when we do this, let's do it with a good deal of science-based thought and not be hysterical or print anything or do anything that would lead other people to be hysterical -- like, actually, some NGOs, I might say, whose bread and butter is to instill certain hysterical thoughts in the public.

So let's stick with sound science, please -- sound science, facts. Let people know what nanotechnology is, what it can do from a medical standpoint, scientific standpoint, consumer product standpoint. And do it with sound science and not do it to stir up people out in the hustings who don't have time to learn precisely what it is.

So that was a statement, Mr. Chairman, and not a question, but a very friendly admonition that this is great stuff. The United States needs to be number one and remain number one in this technology and it can only do that if we encourage our researchers, if we encourage the commercial sector and we do our very best to define precisely what nanotechnology is. And it's not something that's going to hurt us. It's something that's going to help us.

*******************

Article 20

First, we recognize that in a globalized, knowledge-based economy, America's greatest resource for innovation and economic growth resides within America's classrooms. To create a new generation of innovators, our agenda calls for a qualified teacher in every math and science K-12 classroom and we issue a "call to action" to engineers and scientists to join the ranks of America's teachers. We will add 100,000 new scientists, mathematicians, and engineers to America's workforce in the next four years by providing scholarships, other financial assistance, and private sector opportunities to college students to achieve this goal.

Second, we recognize that independent scientific research provides the foundation for innovation and future technologies. Our agenda will double federal funding for basic research and development in the physical sciences, and promote the public-private partnerships that will translate new ideas into marketable technologies. For example, grants from the National Science Foundation have funded breakthroughs in everything from the Internet, to fiber optics, to nanotechnology. We commit to doubling this investment. In addition, we will create research "centers of excellence" across the country, and modernize and make permanent the R&D tax credit. These investments will allow us to pursue the long-term, trailblazing research that gives rise to new advances, spawns new industries, and creates good jobs.

Third, we recognize that the nationwide deployment of high speed, always-on broadband and Internet and mobile communications will fuel the development of millions of new jobs IN the United States. Our agenda guarantees that every American will have affordable access to broadband within five years. Universal broadband will propel advanced Internet applications, such as distance learning, health IT, video-on- demand, and Voice over IP. Universal broadband -- whether it's delivered by Wi-Fi or WiMAX, or hard line -- will put all Americans, no matter where they live, no more than a keystroke or a mouse click away from the jobs and opportunity that broadband both creates and supports. As one young technology leader told us in our meeting -- "If you think you've seen what broadband can do, you ain't seen nothing yet."

+++++++++++++++++++

To achieve this goal, Democrats will:

Substantially reduce the use of petroleum based fuels by rapidly expanding production and distribution of synthetic and bio-based fuels, such as ethanol derived from cellulosic sources, and by deploying new engine technologies for fuel-flexible, hybrid, plug-in hybrid and biodiesel vehicles.

Create a new DARPA-like initiative within the Department of Energy to provide seed money for fundamental research needed to develop high-risk, high-reward technologies and build markets for the next generation of revolutionary energy technologies, such as those emerging from biotechnology, nanotechnology, solar, and fuel-cell research.

Small businesses are the catalysts for technological innovation. The evolution from idea to marketable product, guided by a successful small business plan, has led to entrepreneurial successes that have fueled our technological revolution and will be the key to continued job growth in the future. Yet small businesses face significant hurdles, both regulatory and market-based, that thwart the effort to transform ideas into jobs. Removing these hurdles is a key component of this Innovation Agenda.

*******************

Article 21

Security-Based Technology (ST)

International terrorism triggered a heightened national need for security. Since NSF is already investing in the areas of Nanotechnology, Biotechnology and Information Technology, the SBIR program supports proposals that address security opportunities at the intersection of one or more of these technologies.

Mantcfacturing Innovation (MI)

In response to Executive Order 13329 requiring all federal agencies with SBIR programs to emphasize manufacturing research as a way to spur innovations to reverse erosion of the manufacturing base, the NSF SBIR is positioned to stimulate innovation in other technologies in support of national needs.

In addition, small business innovations provide tools to further advanced research and education by academia. Some examples include robust remote sensors for geosciences, enhanced data gathering by atomic force microscopes for materials science and biosciences and education software for bringing science to elementary schools.

+++++++++++++++++++

Luna Innovations has developed dramatically improved contrast agents based on carbon nanospheres for magnetic resonance imaging (MR [) diagnostics. There are many instances where an MRI scan is not prescribed because no contrast agent exists. In addition, improved contrast agents increase diagnosis accuracy and reduce treatment cost. Their researchers discovered a new class of molecules-- endohedral metal lofullerenes called Trimetaspheres that allows three metal ions to be encapsulated within a fullerene structure. Trimetaspheres have been shown to be more than 50 times better in terms of sensitivity than traditional contrast agents. They are also safer-- because the metal ions cannot escape the carbon cage-- and they provide an excellent' platform for cell targeting. For example, within the brain, Trimetaspheres can pass the blood-brain barrier and are small enough to fit inside the smaller regions of blood vessels. These contrast agents dramatically improve patient care and lower medical costs by improving existing MRI diagnostics and providing new contrast agents that allow diagnoses in cases where there is no current method. Luna Innovations has invested significantly into a Trimetasphere production facility. The technology developed in this program is being applied in current MRI measurements and satisfies requirements for future high field strength MRI instruments. The company is partnering with pharmaceutical companies to bring these new contrast agents to an expanding market.


+++++++++++++++++++

Big Horn Valve, Inc has developed an emissions-free valve for the petroleum refining and chemical processing industries that utilizes rotary magnetic coupling with manual and pneumatic operation. This new valve provides significant internal seal improvement with reduced friction for extended life and improved flow efficiency and controllability. Failsafe operation combined with modularization for assembly and service are very important to the petrochemical refining and chemical industries where fugitive emissions from leaky valves have become the most critical environmental regulatory issue and where the current valve designs are deemed to be inadequate. They are currently working with strategic partners in the chemical processing industries to bring the technology to market.

NanoScale Materials, Inc. has developed the toxic-chemical cleaner known as FASTACT composed of magnesium, titanium and oxygen. This new family of powders packs a punch--crammed onto each tiny grain is an enormous surface area and a seemingly limitless thirst for hazardous substances. When sprayed from a canister or spread over a spill, the material attaches to and rapidly breaks apart the material into a harmless state. Kansas State University chemist Kenneth Klabunde was the first to devise the nanoengineering techniques that led to the development of FAST-ACT with support from NSF. The company was founded to produce this new family of substances. The SBIR program supported created the manufacturing processes for commercial-scale production.

*******************

Article 22

The NIH is the principal operating component within HHS participating in the SBIR program. We constitute about 98% of the Department's entire SBIR program activity and contribute the second largest amount of SBIR funding available across the Federal government. In FY 2005, the NIH made 1,668 SBIR awards amounting to over $626 million. About 21% of all Phase I SBIR applicants (Phase I determines scientific or technical feasibility and commercial merit.) and about 46% of all Phase 11 SBIR applicants (Phase 11 continues promising Phase I results.) were funded.

Across the NIH, there are 24 Institutes and Centers that reserve 2.5% of their extramural research and development (R&D) budget for SBIR awards. Each of these awarding components has a research mission with well-defined priorities. Examples of the breadth and depth of research we support include biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, therapeutics, medical devices, nanotechnologies, bioengineering, and behavioral research.

The SBIR program has become fully integrated into the overall scientific programs and goals of the NIH, particularly with respect to the goal of translating scientific findings and advances into tangible products and services. Through a competitive, phased award system, the SBIR program supports a wide array of innovative biomedical and public health R&D projects by small firms. The SBIR program stimulates technological innovation in the small business research community and enhances collaborative efforts with the academic research community. The program encourages small businesses to explore their technological potential and provides the incentive to profit from its commercialization. The Nation benefits from the small businesses' entrepreneurial spirit, the end result of which is high technology innovation to meet specific R&D needs.

*******************

Article 23

Examples of current technical topic descriptions are as follows:

Research to Support Proliferation Detection

Electric Transmission and Distribution Technologies

Decontamination and Decommissioning of Facilities in the DOE Complex Biological Solutions for Reducing Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide and for Producing Fuels

Coal Gasification and Combustion Technologies Nanotechnology

Neutron, Electron, and Photon Beam Instrumentation Advanced Technologies for Nuclear Energy Renewable Energy Sources

Fusion Science and Technology

Advanced Concepts and Technology for High Energy Accelerators High-Performance Computing

Nuclear Particle Physics and Radiation Detection Systems, Instrumentation and Techniques

*******************

Article 24

Basic Energy Sciences. The conferees provide $1,146,017,000 for basic energy sciences, the same as the budget request. The conference agreement includes $746,143,000 for materials sciences and engineering research, and $221,801,000 for chemical sciences, geosciences, and energy biosciences. All basic energy science construction projects are funded at the request level: $41,744,000 for the Spallation Neutron Source (99-E-334) at Oak Ridge National Laboratory; $2,544,000 for Title I and Title II design work (03-SC-002) and $83,000,000 to initiate construction (05-R-320) for the Linac Coherent Light Source at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center; $36,553,000 for the Center for Functional Nanomaterials (05-R-321) at Brookhaven National Laboratory; $9,606,000 for the Molecular Foundry (04-R-313) at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory; and $4,626,000 for the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies (03-R-313) at Los Alamos and Sandia National Laboratories. Also included at the request level is $7,280,000 for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR). Within available funds, the conferees encourage the Department to continue the purchase of fuel for the High Flux Isotope Reactor. The conferees note the recent CD-0 decision on the National Synchrotron Light Source-II at Brookhaven National Laboratory, and encourage the Department to fund expeditiously the project engineering and design for this facility.

+++++++++++++++++++

Within funds provided for operations of facilities, the conferees direct that, at a minimum, an additional $51,000,000 be provided for the Pantex Plant in Texas and an additional $40,000,000 for the Y-12 Plant in Tennessee as proposed by the House and $15,000,000 for the Kansas City Plant in Kansas as proposed by the Senate. The conference agreement provides the budget request of $25,000,000 for Lawrence Livermore Laboratory and $21,997,000 for the Y-12 plant to address newly generated waste activities.

Nanotechnology. The conferees provide $15,000,000 from within available funds for the establishment of the National Nanotechnology Enterprise Development Center (NNEDC), to be managed by the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies. The NNEDC will assist in the technology maturation of nanotechnologies developed at each of the National Nanoscience Initiative Facilities and to assist in their transition to the marketplace, while emphasizing opportunities for industrial partnerships with the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies. Proposals to the NNEDC will be considered by a board of experts qualified to evaluate proposals based on both their scientific merit and their commercial potential, including a representative from each of the National Nanoscience Initiative Facilities, and a similar number of representatives from economic development and commercial sectors to be selected by the Department of Energy's Office of Science.

*******************

Article 25

The conference agreement provides funds for the following congressional priorities. None of these funds shall be for non-NASA construction projects:

$3,000,000 MSFC Simulation Based Acquisition for Manned Space Flight Vehicle Design and Testing;

$4,000,000 Satellite Test Equivalence Principal (STEP);

$1,500,000 Alan Shepard Discovery Center at the McAuliffe Planetarium, equipment and exhibits;

$1,000,000 Ott Planetarium, education programs;

$1,000,000 Stars program at Rhoads College, TN;

$5,000,000 to be transferred to the Air Force Research Laboratory for joint NASA-AFRL research in advanced air traffic management including the development of new visualization and simulation tools;

$2,000,000 Institute for the Application of Geospatial Technology at Cayuga Community College, Inc.;

$1,000,000 University of South Alabama for high strength composite research;

$1,000,000 collaborative research on innovative carbon nanotechnology between Houston Advanced Research Center and Rice University;

$750,000 Remote Sensing Initiative at California State University, Fullerton;

$700,000 space exploration education program at the McLean VA based Total Learning Research Institute;

$2,000,000 George Mason University's Center for Earth Observing Research;

*******************

Article 26

Technology

Our current force enjoys a huge capability advantage as a result of the Department's development of technologies such as night vision, the global positioning system, and stealth, but the pace of technology development globally continues to increase. A stable research and development program is necessary to maintain a technology. Over time, potential adversaries will develop technologies to counter the current U.S. advantage, so continued technology advancement is critical. To meet this need, the Department is refocusing its science and technology program to provide future disruptive and irregular capabilities, such as hypersonic flight and weapons, energy independence, and nanotechnologies, to name a few. The recently established Research and Engineering Goals provide the framework to mature technology in specific areas of emphasis and to field the disruptive technologies of tomorrow.

*******************

Article 27

Appliance Garage and Energy Star Appliances and Fixtures

The Appliance Garage, situated at the north end of the house, is a large storage space divided into easily accessible cabinets. This cabinet is made of thin walls to conserve space and uses nanotechnology (nanopaint) to withstand the coldest side of the house. On the exterior, the Garage contains storage space and the electric equipment that converts and stores the electricity produced from the photovoltaic panels (through inverters and batteries). The interior opens up into a home office with filing cabinets, and also includes attic storage and a wardrobe. The flat screen monitor, lights and appliances are all energy efficient and energy star rated. The use of these fixtures reduces the load and the size of the photovoltaic system without compromising functionality.

*******************

Article 28

We must plan for the unexpected and think the unthinkable. Just because a massive attack has not happened, doesn't mean it will not occur. We also must think about insidious attacks. For example, the manipulation or corruption of data involving the alteration of target sets or soldiers' blood types, or scrambled logistics orders sending supplies to the wrong places before a critical deployment. The results could be catastrophic and difficult to untangle.

To add to the mix, technology is changing rapidly, including the convergence of the public service telephone network with IP-based networks, the deployment of new technologies ranging from Radio Frequency Identification tags to nanotechnology. Finally, nation states are beginning to understand the critical importance of the information infrastructure, witness the current firestorm over the prospect of the UN "governing" the operation of the Internet's Domain Name System. Politics is beginning to enter the operation and control of the Internet.

Dependence on privately owned and operated critical infrastructure

*******************

Article 29

-- Forest Products Utilization: The Forest Products Lab and regional Forest Service experiment stations conduct important research on the efficient and effective use of wood fiber. Improved wood utilization contributes to the environment in many ways. Just as one example, exploration of small diameter wood use and bioenergy production can help address the forest health problem caused by overcrowding and forest fuel build-up. Also, since the emerging field of nanotechnology is expected to be a critical driver of global economic growth and development, the application of nanotechnology science to wood-based lignocellulosic materials offers the potential to sustainably meet the wood-based needs of present and future generations.

*******************

Article 30

A new national HIU'MINT posture will require a substantial increase in the number of operations officers deployed overseas, different kinds of operations officers, new cover mechanisms, and much greater participation by DoD. The number of operations officers in the field will likely need to be increased by at least one hundred percent. DoD should develop a military strategic HUMINT service that can maintain several hundred operations officers overseas, and provide global clandestine coverage of GWOT and other military intelligence targets. Similarly, DoD needs to develop new SIGINT and information operations capabilities to operate effectively against fleeting targets in cluttered and concealed information collection environments. Data mining and pattern recognition software are critical analytical tools.

A national "Manhattan Project"-like program will likely be required to produce the needed technologies and provide the US with the same advantage in transnational irregular and catastrophic warfare that it has at present in traditional warfare. Biometrics (DNA, face, gait and odor recognition), RFIDs, "spy dust," and nanotechnology are among the key technologies that should be explored. Key challenges that must be solved are identifying targets to be located, tagged and tracked, and conducting standoff, clandestine and persistent tagging and remote monitoring, including in denied areas.


*******************

Article 31

And my invitation is related to a larger concern I have about the direction of funding for science and research within the Department of Defense. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, otherwise known as DARPA, has seen some significant cutbacks in the last several years. 

The department's science and technology programs are absolutely essential, and what they have historically done is to make investments in our nation's universities and innovative high-tech small businesses in areas such as robotics, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology and the like. And we've obviously seen the results of that research grow into new capabilities that have been proven effective in the global war on terrorism operations in Iraq and elsewhere, but also in the civilian world with the spin-offs.

That's why I'm concerned that the department seems to be systematically under investing in fundamental and long-term research programs. The department's science and technology requests for '06 was down $2.8 billion from the '05 appropriated levels and even 28 million (dollars) below the original '05 budget request.

*******************

Article 32

And I would like you to know you're invited to come up and visit Rome labs for yourself and to see what we're doing in cybersecurity. And my invitation is related to a larger concern I have about the direction of funding for science and research within the Department of Defense.

The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, otherwise known as DARPA, has seen some significant cutbacks in the last several years. The department's science and technology programs are absolutely essential. And what they have historically done is to make investments in our nation's universities and innovative, high-tech small businesses in areas such as robotics, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology and the like.

And we've obviously seen the results of that research grow into new capabilities that have been proven effective in the global war on terrorism operations in Iraq and elsewhere, but also in the civilian world with the spinoff.


*******************

Article 33

GE is already investing in research to develop membranes that have lower energy consumption, improved life, and innovative integrated treatment systems such as the integration of membrane- based desalination and energy generated from wind turbines.

GE is also evaluating whether to embark upon a number of far- reaching, longer-term water scarcity research programs that could result in disruptive desalination and reuse technologies that would substantially reduce energy consumption, increase throughput, and thus substantially lower the overall cost of New Water. Such potential programs include nanotechnologies; "smart" membranes (with pores that adjust so that they can perform selective separation); a 10X simplification in pretreatment processes; and advanced remote monitoring and diagnostics.

We are committed to continuing our efforts in these areas, but government support would enable us to accelerate existing programs, and to pursue altogether new research programs.

*******************

Article 34
DOE's Laboratories have a wide range of capabilities that are well suited to tackle the most difficult challenges at the intersection of energy and water. These include new information systems, computational models, and monitoring technology to better understand future supplies and demands for both energy and water. New materials, separation methods, and sensors/controls can be developed to create clean water and to increase water-use efficiencies in the energy sector. Increasing water-use efficiencies in energy, as well as in other industrial sectors, is an important priority, because it will delay the onset and the severity of unproductive competition between energy and water resources. As others have mentioned, the biotechnologies and nanotechnologies that are being developed within the national laboratories will have many applications to cleaning water that we hope will be more energy-efficient than current technologies.


*******************

Article 35

Concentration of program responsibilities in three DOE national laboratories makes eminent sense. Three is a number large enough to provide diverse viewpoints and a very wide range of expertise and technical capabilities; yet it is small enough to keep the program manageable and provide the laboratories funding on scale commensurate with the need to pursue large-scale multidisciplinary research and development activities. Each of the three selected lead laboratories brings to bear important attributes that will contribute to program success:

--Broad ranging capabilities. As premier research facilities, the DOE national laboratories are large repositories of multidisciplinary expertise and home to many of the world's largest computers and state-of-the-art experimental facilities. They define the forefront of science and engineering in materials and nanotechnology development, advanced computations, numerical simulation, and detection and analysis of hazardous chemical and biological compounds. These cross-cutting capabilities are essential to solving water challenges.

--Relevant ongoing research and development activities. The lead laboratories have been engaged in both energy and water projects for many years. One particular source of special expertise in water issues at Lawrence Livermore stems from long standing efforts to characterize and cleanup groundwater at the Laboratory (and other superfund sites). These activities in the 1990s led to the development and transfer to U.S. industry of novel technologies for water treatment, including dynamic underground stripping for rapid groundwater remediation, and capacitive deionization (CDI) for removal of a variety of contaminants. Lawrence Livermore's capabilities in materials science, molecular modeling and separations science continue to fuel develop and transfer of a wide variety of water- and energy-related technologies, as discussed in the next section.

+++++++++++++++++++

LAWRENCE LIVERMORE'S CONTRIBUTING CAPABILITIES

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) has a proven track record in applying its capabilities to the complex water issues facing its nearby communities, California, the West, and the nation. The Laboratory emphasizes bringing expertise from many scientific disciplines to its water technology projects. LLNL scientists and engineers have at their disposal unique facilities for analyzing trace amounts of hazardous compounds, some of the world's fastest computers, nanoscale characterization and fabrication capabilities, and special software and analytical tools developed for water and/or energy management.

At the Laboratory, water treatment and monitoring technologies are at all stages of development, from new materials at design- stage, based on breakthroughs in separations science, to laboratory and field-scale pilots, to commercial units. These research and development activities are sponsored externally and internally and pursued in partnership with a variety of government agencies, water organizations, and corporations.

*******************

Article 36

Accomplishing these needed technological advances for specific high priority needs will require drawing on the best science and engineering capabilities in our national laboratories and universities. Research at universities across the country is a major source of innovative concepts with significant potential to address energy and water issues. University research adds the substantial benefit of educating the undergraduate and graduate students who will work to solve these challenges well into the future.

Solutions for many of these technological challenges will build on the foundation work in multiple DOE Office of Science programs, including such areas as science at the nanoscale, molecular-level material design, engineering the convergence of chemical and biological processes. Through the national laboratories, the Energy-Water Nexus team has been at the forefront of defining technical challenges related to energy- water interdependency. These laboratories have extensive water and energy expertise.

Success in bringing innovation to application requires continuity across R&D, through pilot testing to commercialization

+++++++++++++++++++

The proposed Energy-Water Efficiency Technology Research, Development, and Transfer Program Act of 2005 maps the proposed program into the Title I Energy Efficiency program area of the recently signed Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 also includes Section 979 that addressed similar energy and water issues within the Title IX Science area.

As noted previously, the Office of Science has multiple foundational research programs with strong potential to contribute. In addition, core Office of Science research facilities, such as the Nanoscale Science Research Centers, provide state-of-the-art facilities that enable breakthrough research. Solution of the critical energy-water challenges faced in the U.S. will require both scientific research and technology development. DOE should have the flexibility to define an integrated program strategy, enabling integrated execution of appropriate research in the Office of Science (through Section 979 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005), with a complementary program in an applied program area of DOE such as Energy Efficiency (through the proposed Energy-Water Efficiency Technology Research, Development, and Transfer Program Act of 2005). Energy-water issues cut across multiple applied program areas within DOE (e.g. Fossil Energy), and DOE must have the flexibility to address how best to meet the energy-water challenges across program areas.


*******************

Article 37

The recent Open Skies Agreement with India is already increasing air traffic and creating new jobs. India is finalizing a large order of Boeing aircraft. India's cooperation and support is vital for the success of the current Doha Round of multilateral trade talks. We must both work harder to achieve that goal.

One of the most widely recognized strengths of India's economy is its phenomenal expertise in the fields of science and technology. In Washington yesterday, Secretary Rice and Indian Minister of Science and Technology Sibal signed the U.S.-India Science and Technology Agreement that will open the door to a wider range of scientific and technical cooperation between our countries. The agreement will promote cooperation in basic sciences, space, energy, nanotechnology, health and information technology. It also establishes for the first time the intellectual property rights protocols and other provisions necessary to conduct active collaborative scientific and technological research.


*******************

Article 38

Prime Minister Singh has placed economic reform at the top of his agenda. The U.S. commitment to develop deep economic and commercial ties with India has never been stronger. The health of our economic relationship has not gone unnoticed by the U.S. business community. Our embassies and consulates in India are welcoming more U.S. business delegations than ever before. U.S. exports to India have risen by 50 percent, and India's exports to the U.S. are up by 15 percent for the first quarter of 2005. We have put behind us a number of troublesome commercial disputes. We are aiming to boost trade and investment. The recent Open Skies Agreement with India is already increasing air traffic and creating new jobs. India is finalizing a large order of Boeing aircraft. India's cooperation and support is vital for the success of the current Doha Round of multilateral trade talks. We must both work harder to achieve that goal.

One of the most widely recognized strengths of India's economy is its phenomenal expertise in the fields of science and technology. In Washington yesterday, Secretary Rice and Indian Minister of Science and Technology Sibal signed the U.S.-India Science and Technology Agreement that will open the door to a wider range of scientific and technical cooperation between our countries. The agreement will promote cooperation in basic sciences, space, energy, nanotechnology, health and information technology. It also establishes for the first time the intellectual property rights protocols and other provisions necessary to conduct active collaborative scientific and technological research.

We in government have watched this explosion in Indian-American private sector contacts with admiration. We set out this year to match it by engineering a dramatic expansion of our government-to-government cooperation. When Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited India in March, she worked with the Indian government on a plan to quicken the completion of the Next Steps in the Strategic Partnership (NSSP).

*******************

Article 39


This agreement establishes for the first time the intellectual property rights protocols and other provisions necessary to conduct active collaborative research. The agreement also complements the activities of a successful Indo-U.S. science and technology forum that our countries created in the year 2000. In addition to expanding the frontiers of knowledge, the agreement will lead to collaborations that will improve that will improve the lives of our citizens and benefit both our economies.

The United States and India will have greater opportunities and incentives to deepen and accelerate our long-standing scientific collaboration in a variety of fields, including basic sciences, space, energy, nanotechnology, health and information technology. In all of these areas, the United States and the international community already have benefited greatly from the expertise of the Indian scientific community.

As President Bush and Prime Minister Singh declared during their meeting in July, "Our two countries are resolved to transforming our bilateral relationship and to establishing a global partnership." In fact later this week, Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns will be traveling to India to further our historic partnerships, to promote democratic values, combat terrorism, support economic growth, expand bilateral activities and commerce and achieve peace and stability in the region and beyond.


*******************

Article 40

This agreement establishes for the first time the intellectual property rights protocols and other provisions necessary to conduct active collaborative research. The agreement also complements the activities of a successful Indo-U.S. science and technology forum that our countries created in the year 2000. In addition to expanding the frontiers of knowledge, the agreement will lead to collaborations that will improve that will improve the lives of our citizens and benefit both our economies.

The United States and India will have greater opportunities and incentives to deepen and accelerate our long-standing scientific collaboration in a variety of fields, including basic sciences, space, energy, nanotechnology, health and information technology. In all of these areas, the United States and the international community already have benefited greatly from the expertise of the Indian scientific community.

As President Bush and Prime Minister Singh declared during their meeting in July, "Our two countries are resolved to transforming our bilateral relationship and to establishing a global partnership." In fact later this week, Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns will be traveling to India to further our historic partnerships, to promote democratic values, combat terrorism, support economic growth, expand bilateral activities and commerce and achieve peace and stability in the region and beyond.

*******************

Article 41

Okay. One of these -- again, in the environmental area this describes the research initiative in the schematic way that we have at Georgia Tech. Okay. What -- we're looking at three different areas: climate variability in global change, environmental hazards, and environmental quality. And some of the most interesting topics in there is where they overlap. For instance -- for example, this hurricane climate thing is where environmental hazards meets climate variability. So a lot of the most interesting and greatest challenges is where they intersect.

But the unique thing that -- beside interdisciplinary research, the unique thing that Georgia Tech does is, again, we're looking to bring innovations from engineering and our foundational sciences -- nanotech, et cetera -- looking at the complexity of the environment and interdisciplinary science, and working toward solutions on the other side. And the engineering and social science tool that we have to contribute to solutions at Georgia Tech is optimization, logistics, decision science, risk assessment -- really, an engineering approach to this as well as social, behavioral and organizational science. And in doing the solutions, partnering is key. And we have the Economic Development Institute and the Sustainable Development Technology Institute at Georgia Tech to help us make partners with government agencies, NGOs and industry.

Ben, next.

*******************

Article 42

Funding for scientific research has flat-lined over the past few years, and this year the administration's proposed budget actually calls for a decrease in real dollars for federally funded research.

Most of the R&D budget increases that did occur in the president's budget were for new defense weapons systems, not for basic research in electronics, nanotechnology, computing, energy, physics, and all of the other sciences.

I believe the U.S. is in real danger of losing its lead in science and advanced technology. Federal R&D plays a critical role in the education and training of future scientists and engineers, technological innovations, advancing health, increasing economic growth and competitiveness.

*******************

Article 43

Technology

Our current force enjoys a huge capability advantage as a result of the Department's development of technologies such as night vision, the global positioning system, and stealth, but the pace of technology development globally continues to increase. A stable research and development program is necessary to maintain a technology. Over time, potential adversaries will develop technologies to counter the current U.S. advantage, so continued technology refresh is critical. To meet this need, the Department is refocusing its science and technology program to provide future disruptive and irregular capabilities, such as hypersonic flight and weapons, oil independence, and nanotechnologies, to name a few. The recently established Research and Engineering Goals provide the framework to mature technology in specific areas of emphasis and to field the disruptive technologies of tomorrow.

*******************

Article 44

In the 21st century, opening our doors to trade is the surest way to create opportunity for all Americans. Trade is not mere economics. Free and open trade is economic diplomacy, which promotes the spread of ideas, friendships, and the habits of liberty and ultimately encourages the spread of democracy, economic stability, and stronger partnerships. I come before this Committee during a unique and transformational moment in history. A time when democracy is taking hold around the world and we are experiencing a great shift in economies around the world.

The pursuit of liberty and new opportunities was a motivating force in bringing our Founding Fathers to this great land, and it is this freedom that has become the foundation for the entrepreneurial spirit embedded in the hearts and minds of the American people. From the first electric light to the first flight to nanotechnology, the entrepreneurial spirit tha t exists today has created a dynamic and vibrant community of enterprises second to none. Government must create an environment where entrepreneurs and risk takers can realize their dreams.

Giants like Ford and Microsoft were not so long ago small businesses striving to realize the dreams of Henry Ford and Bill Gates. Today, small businesses create seventy percent of new American jobs, employ the majority of American workers, and are responsible for the majority of our nation's economic output. Small business owners are economic patriots taking risks and pursuing dreams. A vibrant small business sector is necessary for the economic health of our country.

*******************

Article 45

You have imagined a country where high-speed broadband Internet service gives all Americans, no matter where they live, access to a world of information that might otherwise be worlds away.

You have imagined an economy where leadership in nanotechnology and energy innovation has spawned vast new industries that provide hundreds of thousands of jobs here at home, and export goods and know- how abroad.

We must develop a society where all children leave high school with both the knowledge and the opportunity to attend college, furthering their own dreams and further fueling the cycle of innovation, advancement, and job creation. I am deeply optimistic, because the gap between what we can imagine and what we can achieve has never been smaller.

But at the same time, we are facing serious challenges to closing the last mile" of that gap.

To take advantage of America's innovative, entrepreneurial spirit - which all of you in this room represent - and to keep America's competitive edge in the global economy, all of us -- Republicans and Democrats -- must as a country make the commitment to do it.

We must make the bipartisan commitment to increase our investment in basic research, nanotechnology, and biotechnology, among other fields - research that allows creative minds to find creative solutions.

We must make a commitment to improve our education system so that we continue to produce the best, brightest, and highest skilled workers.


*******************

Article 46

The growing importance of IP in recent years has had a direct impact on the USPTO. Patent applications have more than doubled since 1992. In the last five years alone, biotechnology-related patent filings increased 46 percent and pharmaceutical and chemical-related filings climbed 42 percent. Worldwide at our offices and our counterparts in Europe, Japan and other national IP offices 12 million patent applications are pending in the examination pipeline.

In addition to the sheer volume of these applications, the technical complexity of patent applications is rapidly increasing. One hundred years ago, more than one-third of our patent filings were bicycle-related. Today, we routinely examine patent applications in areas such as nanotechnology, bio- informatics, and combinatorial chemistry. Some of these patent applications come in on CD-ROMS that are literally the equivalent of millions of pages of paper.

The USPTO serves as an important catalyst for U.S. economic growth. Through the granting of patents and the registration of trademarks, the USPTO promotes the vitality of businesses and entrepreneurs, paving the way for investment capital and research and development. We are proud of our 215 year-old legacy of helping America become a technological and economic giant. To remain the best patent examination system in the world, we are focused on improving our quality and our productivity. Productivity improvements are critical as a mechanism to address our ever-increasing backlog. The Patent Application Backlog - What Is It and Why Is It A Challenge?

*******************

Article 47

These agency production goals have remained essentially unchanged since they were put in place in 1976. Since that time, however, the nature of the work has changed considerably.

Indeed, some technologies such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, bioinformatics, and business methods either were not patentable or did not even exist when these goals were put in place.

Since 1976, patent applications have become more complex. Applications today often have larger specifications and higher numbers of claims than applications filed in 1976. Applicantsubmitted information disclosure statements are often so large that they require storage in boxes. The increased complexity of patent applications has been recognized by both the USPTO and Congress as evidenced by the recent dramatic increases in fees for large specifications and excess claims.

*******************

Article 48

(e) Skill Certification Pilot Projects.

(1) Pilot projects. In accordance with subsection (b) and from funds appropriated pursuant to paragraph (10), the Secretary shall establish and carry out not more than 10 pilot projects to establish a system of industry-validated national certifications of skills, including

(A) not more than 8 national certifications of skills in high-technology industries, including biotechnology, telecommunications, highly automated manufacturing (including semiconductors), nanotechnology, and energy technology; and

(B) not more than 2 cross-disciplinary national certifications of skills in homeland security technology.

*******************

Article 49

SEC. 103. CATALYSIS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

(a) Establishment. The Secretary shall conduct a program of research and development in catalysis science, including efforts to

(1) enable molecular-level catalyst design by coupling experimental and computational approaches;

(2) enable nanoscale, high-throughput synthesis, assay, and characterization; and (3) synthesize catalysts with specific site architectures.

(b) Program Activities. In carrying out the program under this section, the Secretary shall

(1) support both individual researchers and multidisciplinary teams of researchers to pioneer new approaches in catalytic design;

(2) develop, plan, construct, acquire, or operate special equipment or facilities, including user facilities;

(3) support technology transfer activities to benefit industry and other users of catalysis science and engineering; and (4) coordinate research and development activities with industry and other Federal agencies.

+++++++++++++++++++


SEC. 110. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

(a) In General. In addition to amounts authorized to be appropriated under the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act (15 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.) and the Department of Energy High-End Computing Revitalization Act of 2004 (15 U.S.C. 5541 et seq.), the following sums are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for the purposes of carrying out this title:

(1) For fiscal year 2006, $3,785,000,000.

(2) For fiscal year 2007, $4,153,000,000.

(3) For fiscal year 2008, $4,628,000,000.

(4) For fiscal year 2009, $5,300,000,000.

(5) For fiscal year 2010, $5,800,000,000.

*******************

Article 50

So, this vision statement begins by recognizing those mutual interests. It focuses on the interests of energy, both energy security, but also energy efficiency. It focuses on the vital role of energy in development and it also focuses on the issues of climate change. It opens up the possibilities for developing, deploying, and transferring cleaner, more efficient technologies. There are some that are ready to go now, dealing with clean coal, liquid natural gas, methane capture and use, renewable fuels, but there's also a longer term agenda, in terms of reducing green house gas intensities, topics such as hydrogen, fusion, advanced biotechnology, and nanotechnology. So I want to thank our colleagues from Australia in particular for agreeing to host the ministerial later this year at beautiful Adelaide, which I had an opportunity to visit with the minister in the late 90's. I think the key is the flexibility that this vision outlines because our goal here is to try to complement other agreements and activities with practical solutions to problems. I think others and we will need networks and partnerships like this one so we can try to customize work on issues of energy security and efficiency and also green house gas emissions. Thank you.

*******************

Article 51

So, this vision statement begins by recognizing those mutual interests. It focuses on the interests of energy, both energy security, but also energy efficiency. It focuses on the vital role of energy in development and it also focuses on the issues of climate change. It opens up the possibilities for developing, deploying, and transferring cleaner, more efficient technologies. There are some that are ready to go now, dealing with clean coal, liquid natural gas, methane capture and use, renewable fuels, but there's also a longer term agenda, in terms of reducing green house gas intensities, topics such as hydrogen, fusion, advanced biotechnology, and nanotechnology. So I want to thank our colleagues from Australia in particular for agreeing to host the ministerial later this year at beautiful Adelaide, which I had an opportunity to visit with the minister in the late 90's. I think the key is the flexibility that this vision outlines because our goal here is to try to complement other agreements and activities with practical solutions to problems. I think others and we will need networks and partnerships like this one so we can try to customize work on issues of energy security and efficiency and also green house gas emissions. Thank you.

*******************

Article 52

SEN. SCHUMER: (Laughs.) A trick question!

First, I do want to say this. Governor Pataki called me early this morning to tell me he was going to make his announcement. I don't know if he's actually done it yet, but it's pretty well know about what he's going to do. And I told him I saluted his public service, and I particularly told him that I thought what he did on economic development, an issue I really care about, was very, very -- you know, very impressive. I mean, Albany and the capital region are now the center, after Austin, of chip research and of nanotechnology; in Buffalo we have bioinformatics, a National Center of Excellence; in Rochester, photonics. These are going to help revitalize Upstate New York. And I think he deserves -- I told him that I thought he planted the seeds, and he didn't get to harvest the fruit because it's going to take a while, but New Yorkers will, and appreciate that economic development.

So I salute him on his public service. I don't know what he's going to do, and I wish him well.

*******************

Article 53

Mr. Chairman, the Department has made significant progress in planning and setting the stage to achieve the research breakthroughs necessary for a future hydrogen economy. The Department has competitively selected over $510 million in projects to address critical challenges such as hydrogen storage, fuel cell cost and durability, and hydrogen production and delivery cost. In addition, we have established a national "learning" demonstration and new projects in safety, codes and standards, and education. All of the multi- year projects discussed below were competitively selected and are subject to congressional appropriations. The continuum of research, from basic science to technology demonstration, will be closely coordinated.

In May 2005, 70 new projects were selected at $64 million over three years to focus on fundamental science and to enable revo lutionary breakthroughs in hydrogen production, storage and fuel cells. Topics of this basic research include novel materials for hydrogen storage, membranes for hydrogen separation and purification, designs of catalysts at the nanoscale, solar hydrogen production, and bio- inspired materials and processes.

Three Centers of Excellence and 15 independent projects were initiated in Hydrogen Storage at $150 million over five years to develop the most promising low-pressure storage approaches. The Centers inc lude 20 universities, 9 federal laboratories and eight industry partners, representing a concerted, multidisciplinary effort to address on-board vehicular hydrogen storage.

+++++++++++++++++++

In accordance with this recommendation, we have moved away from subsystem hardware development, such as fuel cell stack systems and conventional high-pressure storage tanks, to put greater emphasis on materials research.

Starting in FY 2005, DOE's Office of Science has been included in the Hydrogen Fuel Initiative in order to focus basic research on overcoming key technology hurdles in hydrogen production, storage and conversion. The Office of Science- funded research seeks fundamental understanding in areas such as novel materials for hydrogen storage with an emphasis on nanoscale structures and new storage concepts, non-precious- metal catalysts, membranes for fuel cells and hydrogen separation, multifunctional nanoscale structures, photocatalytic (including biological and bio- inspired approaches) and photoelectrochemical hydrogen production, and modeling and analytical tools. The three Centers of Excellence established through the Department's "Grand Challenge" solicitation are utilizing recent progress in materials discovery and technology which allows hydrogen to be stored at low pressures and modest temperatures. Rather than "stand alone" test tube research, we have an integrated effort to address basic, applied, and engineering sciences to develop materials and systems for storing hydrogen.

Through the hydrogen production solicitations, we have increased emphasis on long-term research. Last October, DOE announced industry and university grants of $25 million over three years, contingent upon appropriations, for solar-driven photoelectrochemical, thermochemical and photobiological technology. The NAS also recommended changes in other hydrogen production technology areas and advised DOE to "increase development of breakthrough approaches for small-scale reformers [,] . . .research novel renewable liquid distributed reforming [and]. . .emphasize electrolyzer development."

+++++++++++++++++++


An Interagency Hydrogen R&D Task Force has been established by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to leverage resources and coordinate interrelated and complementary research across the entire Federal Government. This year, the Task Force initiated a plan to coordinate a number of key research activities among the eight major agencies that fund hydrogen and fuel cell research. Coordination topics include novel materials for fuel cells and hydrogen storage, inexpensive and durable catalysts, hydrogen production from alternative sources, stationary fuel cells, and fuel-cell vehicle demonstrations. The Task Force has launched a website, Hydrogen.gov, and in the coming year plans to sponsor an expert panel on contributions that nanoscale research can make to realizing a hydrogen economy.



*******************

Article 54


In concert with his research initiatives, the President has also advocated new energy efficiency standards for Federal and State governments and consumer products, tax incentives for the use of renewable sources of energy like wind and solar power, and tax incentives for the purchase of fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles. He has proposed extending the ethanol tax credit to encourage its continued use as an alternative source of fuel, and has promo ted the safe expansion of nuclear energy, one of the cleanest forms of energy generation.

At a more fundamental level, the Administration has focused interagency research efforts in key areas such as nanotechnology, manufacturing, and high-end computing, in order to achieve the scientific understanding needed for substantial changes in our energy infrastructure. The important role of basic research in developing new energy systems and conversion processes has been highlighted in two reports by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology.1

One of the most promising opportunities for improving our energy infrastructure is hydrogen technology and America leads the world in hydrogen research. Two years ago, the President announced $1.2 billion over five years for the Hydrogen Fuel Initiative so that the first cars driven by today's children could be powered by hydrogen, and pollution-free. Successful development of technologies for the production, storage, distribution and use of hydrogen could dramatically reduce our dependence on foreign oil, as well as the emissions associated with fossil fuels.


+++++++++++++++++++


The President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative, led by the Department of Energy (DOE), funds research in each of these areas, with the goal to enable an industry commercialization decision by 2015 to begin production of fuel-cell vehicles. So far, in FY 2004 and 2005, DOE has competitively selected more than $510 million in multi-year research and development (R&D) projects, subject to appropriations, in the areas of hydrogen production, storage, distribution, and fuel cells. This includes $150 million over five years for hydrogen storage R&D at three Centers of Excellence, and $64 million in funding over three years in the Office of Science for basic research in nanoscale catalysts, novel materials for hydrogen storage and conversion, and hydrogen production from solar energy and biological processes.

Federal funding for hydrogen research is producing results. Technology development funded by DOE and industry has reduced the estimated cost of automotive fuel cells purchased in highvolume by 25% (from $275 per kilowatt to $200 per kilowatt) over the past three years.

Development efforts have also reduced the estimated cost of delivered, natural gas-based hydrogen production from $5.00 per gasoline gallon equivalent in 2003 to $3.60 today. While this progress is encouraging, additional research is needed to make these technologies commercially viable. DOE's 2015 cost target for fuel cells is $30 per kilowatt, and the target for delivered, untaxed hydrogen is $2 - $3 per gasoline gallon equivalent. These goals are challenging. Other technical goals for the Hydrogen Fuel Initiative, such as energy density requirements for on-board hydrogen storage, will also require major technology advances. DOE has established a close collaboration among the Federal government, State governments, industry, academia, and the national laboratories to focus on the basic and applied research necessary to achieve these goals.

The overall Federal R&D effort has also been engaged to address these challenges. For the past several years, at the President's direction, the Directors of OSTP and the Office of Management and Budget have identified hydrogen R&D as an interagency budget priority. While DOE provides the leadership and most of the funding for the Hydrogen Fuel Initiative, other Federal agencies are also funding hydrogen-related research and development projects and demonstrations. The interests of each agency in hydrogen vary according to individual missions, but in general, these activities are relevant and complementary to the President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative.

To encourage collaboration among the Federal agencies, OSTP has established an Interagency Task Force on Hydrogen R&D ("Hydrogen Task Force"). By working together, agencies can better accomplish their own missions as well as contribute to overall progress toward the goals of the President's initiative. The work of this group also ties in with interagency coordination efforts in nanotechnology, networking and information technology, and manufacturing, which are organized by OSTP through the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) Committee on Technology.

The Hydrogen Task Force has developed an extensive taxonomy of hydrogen research activities and has identified key areas for interagency collaboration. For each priority, agency leads and participants have been designated to develop and implement interagency coordination plans.

The Hydrogen Task Force has also developed a public website, hydrogen.gov; organized a conference workshop on funding opportunities provided by the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer programs; and initiated plans for a public forum to highlight nanotechnology breakthroughs that could enable the hydrogen economy.

The Hydrogen Task Force has identified 22 focused R&D priorities for interagency collaboration. In the area of fundamental research, these include the investigation of highperformance, low- cost catalysts for hydrogen production and fuel cells; novel materials for hydrogen storage; robust and cost-effective membrane materials; and the molecular interactions of hydrogen and materials. These topics serve as focal points for collaboration among agencies funding basic research, including DOE, the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Department of Defense (DOD), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in the Department of Commerce (DOC), and the Research and Innovative Technology Administration in the Department of Transportation (DOT).

With its ability to yield insights into structures and materials at the molecular level, nanotechnology holds the key to understanding and solving many of these basic challenges. To identify specific opportunities in this area, the Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology Subcommittee of the NSTC organized an interagency workshop in March 2004 on "Nanoscience Research for Energy Needs." This and other topical workshops contributed to development of the Strategic Plan of the National Nanotechnology Initiative, published in December 2004, which outlines the major areas for interagency investment, including nanomaterials, nanoscale processes, and next-generation instrumentation. Research in these areas could enable significant advances in hydrogen production, storage, and fuel cells.



*******************

Article 55

First, I do want to say this. Governor Pataki called me early this morning to tell me he was going to make his announcement. I don't know if he's actually done it yet, but it's pretty well known about what he's going to do.

And I told him I saluted his public service and I particularly told him that I thought what he did on economic development, an issue I really care about, was very, very impressive. I mean Albany and the capital region are now the center, after Austin, of chip research and of nanotechnology. In Buffalo we have Bioinformatics, a national center of excellence. In Rochester, Photonics. These are going to revitalize upstate New York.

And I think he deserves, I told him that I thought he's planted the seeds, and he didn't get to harvest the fruit, because it's going to take a while, but New Yorkers will and appreciate that in economic development.


*******************

Article 56

And if we are going to be truly free and strong we need to improve this economy. There has never, throughout history, been a nation that was militarily powerful but financially and economically weak, but that is the unsustainable path that we are on, and we'd better get off. It begins by know that there's work to do. This administration tells us that, you know, things are just fine, that this is as good as it gets. Well, we as Democrats know better than that because we have helped this nation do better before. With the American people, we helped to lift this country out of the depths of the Great Depression. We helped us move from an agricultural economy to an industrial economy, to service economy, to an information economy, and we can reinvent ourselves to be prosperous and economically strong in the innovation economy of the future as well.

But it does take a strategy. Yes, it does. And so we'll invest in research and development in the parts of the economy that will create the good jobs of tomorrow - biotechnology, nanotechnology, advanced manufacturing, agriscience, environmental sciences and all the rest. We'll have a meaningful system to help those who have been displaced because of globalization to make the transition to being upwardly mobile once again. We owe them that. We owe them that. And when our companies and workers - when our companies and workers embrace free markets and open competition, as we must, we'll have a response when our competitors do not.

You know, I went to Kendallville, Indiana last August and I visited a foundry there. Foundry work is pretty hot and it's pretty tough. They stopped production so that the workers could gather around. And they were sweating and had soot on their faces. But more than that, you know, I could see that a lot of them had concerns in their eyes about what the future was going to hold, not only for them but for their kids. How are their kids going to make it in the new globalized economy some day? 


*******************

Article 57

Agenda 2020's technology initiatives leverage these collaborative partnerships to drive innovation in the forest products industry's processes, materials, and markets. Technology objectives are defined to address shared industry and national strategic goals. The research, development and deployment (RD&D) projects coordinated through Agenda 2020 provide the foundation for new technology-driven business models. The objective is to create options to meet industry's competitive challenges, while contributing solutions to strategic national needs associated with energy, the environment, and the economy.

Agenda 2020 builds on our industry's strategic advantage as stewards of abundant, renewable and sustainable forest materials. Since we are also owners of the fundamental infrastructure for its conversion, our industry has the potential to produce new renewable bio-based products - fiber, fuels, chemicals, and power - with "smart" properties and high performance characteristics. Agenda 2020 initiatives are designed to use emerging technologies, such as biotechnology and nanotechnology, coupled with breakthrough advances in process and conversion technologies, to create and capture value from both new and traditional products. Integrated Forest Products Biorefineries (IFPBs)

+++++++++++++++++++

- Sustainable Forest Productivity applies biotechnology and nanotechnology breakthroughs to sustainable forestry to manage US forest land at a high intensity to supply affordable, sustainable biomass supplies of high quality. This longerterm research focuses on developing fast-growing biomass plantations designed to produce economic, high-quality feedstocks for bio-energy and bio-products. From an energy "life-cycle" perspective, these feedstocks could be vastly superior to the current use of crops or residues. In the short-term, IFPBs will draw from an abundant sustainable supply of forest-based biomass (estimated by USDA and DOE to be 368 million dry tons/year), which is 2.5 times current consumption. In the long term, the advanced forest management practices and customized biomass cultivation enabled by this research will not only augment IFPB yield, but will also lead to healthier forests.


*******************

Article 58

8. Supporting a new US production capability in emerging technologies through creation of world class Centers for Production Excellence, strengthening DOD's historic role in advanced manufacturing research, reorganizing the Manufacturing Extension System toward innovation services for small to medium sized enterprises and supporting an open systems approach to customer relationship, product design, supply chain, manufacturing and logistics systems.

9. Capitalizing on innovation opportunities in hydrogen fuel cells, nanotechnology, new materials, micro-machining, advanced semi-conductor technology, broadband deployment and applications, next generation wireless devices, digital medical records and health care, pervasive computing, modeling and simulation.


*******************

Article 59

To this end, the National Innovation Initiative supports the goal set in the 2001 Quadrennial Defense Review and by the Defense Science Board that at least three percent of the total Department of Defense budget by allocated for defense science and technology. Within this amount, the Department of Defense's historic commitment to fundamental knowledge creation should be restored by directing at least 20 percent of the total Department of Defense science and technology budget to long-term, basic research performed at the nation's universities and national laboratories.

In the twenty-first century, scientific advancement has blurred the lines between scientific disciplines, so that advancement in one area is furthered by development in others. For example, future products in life sciences are very likely to result from a combination of modern biology, nanotechnology, information sciences and the physical sciences and engineering. Over the past half century the United States has invested considerable sums in life sciences research and development, with remarkable results. But the rate of increase in R&D in other sciences has not been as robust. Although federal funding for the life sciences has increased four-fold since the 1980s, growth in the physical sciences, engineering and mathematics has been stagnant. It is important we increase research and development investment across disciplines, because scientific advancement today is interdependent and collaborative. Research and development funding should not be a zero-sum game that simply shifts investment from one area to another as public fashion dictates. Rather, we need a comprehensive philosophy that brings investment in other disciplines up to the level at which the life sciences have thrived.

*******************

Article 60

For each of these challenges, incremental improvements in the present state-of-the-art will not produce a hydrogen economy that is competitive with fossil fuels. Revolutionary breakthroughs are needed, of the kind that come only from high-risk/high-payoff basic research.

The outlook for achieving such breakthroughs is promising. The recent worldwide emphasis on nanoscience and nanotechnology opens up many new directions for hydrogen materials research. All of the critical challenges outlined above depend on understanding and manipulating hydrogen at the nanoscale. Nanoscience has given us new fabrication tools, through top-down lithography and bottom- up self-assembly, that can create molecular architectures of unprecedented complexity and functionality. The explosion of bench-top scanning probes and the development of high intensity sources of electrons, neutrons and x-rays for advanced materials research at DOE's user facilities at Argonne and other national laboratories brings new physical phenomena at ever smaller length and time scales within our reach. Numerical simulations using density functional theory and running on computer clusters of hundreds of nodes can now model the processes of water splitting, hydrogen storage and release, catalysis and ionic conduction in membranes. These scientific developments set the stage for the breakthroughs in hydrogen materials science needed for a vibrant and competitive hydrogen economy.

Significant progress in basic research for the hydrogen economy is already occurring. Basic research on catalysis for fuel cells published in 2005 revealed that a single atomic layer of platinum on certain metal substrates has more catalytic power than the best catalysts now in use; this discovery could significantly reduce the cost and enhance the performance of fuel cells. A new route for splitting water using sunlight was created with the self-assembly of porphyrin nanotubes decorated with gold and platinum nanoparticles. These tiny nanoscale composites have already demonstrated water splitting driven by solar radiation, and they minimize manufacturing cost through their ability to self-assemble. Models of hydrogen storage compounds using density functional theory now predict the density of hydrogen and strength of its binding with unparalleled accuracy. This permits an extensive theoretical survey of potential storage materials, many more than could be practicably fabricated and tested in the laboratory.

*******************

Article 61

2. What are the research areas where breakthroughs are needed to advance a hydrogen economy? How has the Department of Energy (DOE) responded to the report by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) calling for an increased emphasis on basic research? How is DOE incorporating the results of the Basic Energy Sciences workshop on basic research needs for a hydrogen economy into the research agenda for the hydrogen initiative?

Starting in FY 2005, the Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science has been included in the Hydrogen Fuel Initiative in order to focus basic research on overcoming key technology hurdles in hydrogen production, storage, and conversion. The Office of Science- funded research seeks fundamental understanding in areas such as non-precious- metal catalysts, membranes for fuel cells and hydrogen separation, multifunctional nanoscale structures, biological and photoelectrochemical hydrogen production, and modeling and analytical tools.

For example, basic research can help address the critical challenge of hydrogen storage: How do you safely store hydrogen on board a vehicle to enable customer expectations of greater than 300 mile driving range, without compromising passenger or cargo space? The National Academy of Sciences recommended "a shift. . .away from some developme nt areas towards more exploratory work" to address issues like storage, stating that "the probability of success is greatly increased by partnering with a broader range of academic and industrial organizations. . ." Through the Department's "Grand Challenge" solicitation, a "National Hydrogen Storage Project" was established to broaden our scope. 

+++++++++++++++++++


As for fuel cells, key issues are cost and durability. Significant progress has been made by national laboratories as well as industry to reduce the amount of platinum, and hence cost, within the fuel cell electrode. In addition to the targeted activities in fuel cells previously mentioned, the Office of Science has initiated new basic research projects on the design of catalysts at the nanoscale and membrane materials related to fuel cell applications. More effective catalysts, combined with better techniques for fabricating these membrane electrode assemblies and new strategies for improved durability of fuel cells, will enable us to meet the aggressive cost and performance targets we have set for fuel cells. We are also expanding our activities to include manufacturing issues that will help take these new technologies from the laboratory to the marketplace.


*******************

Article 62


Detection

Nomadics Amplified Fluorescence Quenching Smiths Detection Coherent Scatter with CT imaging Analogic Threaded Dual Axis Tomosysthesis (TDAT) General Electric Stationary X-Ray Source (CT)

X-Ray

Xintek Nanotechnology Based X-Ray Imaging Upon completion of the proof-of-concept phase, TSA will evaluate the results and award system development contract(s) to those organizations with concepts and technologies that are proven and demonstrated. It should be emphasized, however, that Manhattan II is a long-term project that is not designed to yield technologies that would be deployable in the immediate future.



*******************

Article 63

When you look at the role of this division, I think it will provide consistent analysis across institutes.

It will provide streamline reporting to Congress. It will provide prospective analysis of emerging areas, either scientific opportunities like nanotechnology or proteomic, rising public health challenges like obesity or any other knowledge gaps can be addressed objectively on the basis of the transparent and publicly available analysis.

I think, in conjunction -- it should not be done separately from the I.C., in conjunction with the I.C. -- we should identify the areas that require strategic coordination, where no single institute can really accomplish the goal that we would like to achieve -- and it should launch initiatives that are beyond the purview or resources of any one institute or center.

*******************

Article 64

The Committee is encouraged to learn that the Trans-NIH Coordinating Committee on the Lymphatic System, and in particular the NHBLI, is working with patient advocates to address the needs of the lymphatic disease and lymphedema patient communities. Initiatives such as a national lymphatic disease patient registry/tissue bank; an NIH lymphatic disease working group and national guidelines for clinical care; an NIH partnership funding program; intramural longitudinal studies; and multidisciplinary centers for research, clinical care, and medical training are strongly encouraged.

Nanosystems Biology. The Committee encourages the Director, along with NCI, to support a collaborative effort to bring nanotechnology, systems biology and molecular imaging together to examine the molecular basis of cancer, consistent with the Director's Roadmap Initiative. Initial efforts have shown that cancers such as breast cancer are not a single disease, but may encompass many different diseases, when examined at the molecular level. Many clinical trials of new drugs are now considered to fail if only 10 percent of patients benefit, yet that 10 percent may represent a specific type of the disease, where the drug in question may be 100 percent effective. Bringing these three disciplines together may allow researchers to identify specific sub-types of cancer and to better target new interventions. Successful results of such an effort could lead to a molecular classification of many types of cancer and to targeted molecular treatments for molecular-specific disease.


*******************

Article 65

Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, it is a pleasure and an honor for me to testify to you today regarding the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) and general competitive position of United States in nanotechnology. My name is Floyd Kvamme and I am a Partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a high technology venture capital firm located in Silicon Valley. That is my full time occupation. I was also honored to be asked, and accepted an invitation, by President George W. Bush in 2001 to co- chair his science and technology advisory group, the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST). The PCAST is a group of nongovernment advisors comprising some two dozen senior representatives, appointed by the President, and drawn from industry, education, and research institutions, and other nongovernmental organizations. The President's Science Advisor, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) Jack Marburger, co-chairs the PCAST along with me. 

Potential of Nanotechnology

"Nanotechnology" touches upon a broad array of disciplines, including chemistry, biology, physics, computational science, and engineering. And like information technology, nanotechnology has the potential to impact virtually every industry, from aerospace and energy to healthcare and agriculture. Based on the ability to see, measure, and manipulate matter at the scale of atoms and molecules, nanotechnology was born, in many ways, with the advent of atomic force microscopy in the mid-1980s. Today many industries such as those based on semiconductors and chemicals already are creating products with enhanced performance based on components and materials with nanosized features.

Nanotechnology today reminds me very much of the early days of the semiconductor industry. The new interdisciplinary relationships being forged and the sense of excitement over future possibilities are very reminiscent of that earlier period. As with semiconductors, future application of nanotechnology based on evolving research could have significant impact throughout the world. Examples where nanotechnology has the potential to vastly improve standards of living in industrialized and developing nations include: medical applications, clean water, and energy. In our report, we highlight some key research in these areas. In medical applications, for example, nanotechnology has made possible the creation of a synthetic bone replacement material that is highly biocompatible and allows bones to heal faster and more completely than the materials that are used today. In the area of energy efficiency, researchers at Sandia Laboratories have demonstrated a light source that mixes different sized "quantum dots" to create high-efficiency white "light emitting diodes" that use about one-tenth as much energy as an incandescent bulb and that could reduce by more than half the amount of electricity used for lighting nationwide. Finally, researchers at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory are nanoengineering membrane systems that can target and remove contaminants in water, while reducing treatment costs by at least half compared to conventional technologies. Low-cost clean water technologies have obvious application in remediation of contaminated groundwater and treating industrial waste, as well as significant potential to help improve public health in developing nations.

The early recognition of the broad range of useful and powerful nanotechnology applications led to the formal establishment of a National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) in Fiscal Year (FY) 2001. Due to its potential to promote innovation and economic benefits, to address the needs of the Federal agencies, as well as to strengthen the position of the United States as a leader in science and technology, the Administration has identified nanotechnology as a top research and development (R&D) priority for the past several years.

History of PCAST's Involvement with Nanotechnology

The history of PCAST's involvement with the NNI extends back to 1999 when the analogous body under the previous Administration supported a proposal for establishing an interagency nanotechnology initiative. In their letter to the President, they included a recommendation that "the progress toward NNI goals be monitored annually by an appropriate external body of experts, such as the National Research Council." In part based on this recommendation, the National Research Council (NRC) was commissioned to do a study of the NNI, which was released in 2002. The first of that study's ten recommendations was that OSTP establish an independent standing nanoscience and nanotechnology advisory board to provide advice to the Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and Technology (NSET) Subcommittee (the interagency body that coordinates the NNI) on policy, strategy, goals, and management.

The President's FY 2004 Budget, released in February 2003, acknowledged the NRC's recommendation for external review, and directed PCAST to conduct an assessment and provide advice regarding the strategic direction of the NNI program. PCAST began this task shortly thereafter.

The 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development (R&D) Act

As PCAST was undertaking its review of the NNI, this Subcommittee and its Senate counterpart were also in the midst of creating new legislation that would make statutory the activities and organization of the NNI, along with periodic reviews and other aspects of this vital R&D effort. The requirement for an ongoing outside advisory panel was ratified by Congress in the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-153; hereafter referred to as "the Act"), which called for the President to establish or designate a National Nanotechnology Advisory Panel (NNAP). PCAST's role was reaffirmed when, in July 2004 by Executive Order, the President formally designated PCAST to fulfill the duties of the NNAP. The order amended the original Executive Order commissioning PCAST, thus establishing that nanotechnology should be included in the formal PCAST charter.

As detailed by Congress in Section 4, the Act calls upon the NNAP to assess the national nanotechnology program in the following areas:

-- Trends and developments in nanotechnology

-- Progress in implementing the program

-- The need to revise the program

-- Balance among the component areas of the program, including funding levels

-- Whether program component areas, priorities, and technical goals developed by the NSET Subcommittee are helping to maintain US leadership

-- Management, coordination, implementation, and activities of the program

-- Whether social, ethical, legal, environmental, and workforce concerns are adequately addressed by the program

The Act requires the NNAP to report on its assessments and to make recommendations for ways to improve the program at least every two years. The first such report provided by PCAST in its role as the NNAP is now complete and was delivered to this Subcommittee at the hearing that was held on May 18th. The remainder of my testimony will focus on this report and the observations and recommendations contained therein. Also, because PCAST was designated as the statutorily mandated NNAP, from this point forward in my testimony I will refer to PCAST as the NNAP.

Technical Advisory Group

Before getting into the specifics of the report, I'd like to highlight a resource that our panel relied on during the course of the review in order to augment the NNAP's expertise in managing large R&D programs with more specific nanotechnology technical expertise. Early in our review, the NNAP identified a Technical Advisory Group (TAG) comprising approximately 45 nanotechnology experts who represent diverse disciplines and sectors across academia and industry. The TAG is a knowledgeable resource, providing input and feedback with a more technical perspective. The NNAP called upon its TAG on several occasions for broader expert opinions on various topics. Two particular areas where the TAG was very helpful were in reviewing and providing feedback on the NNI Strategic Plan and in helping to illuminate and rationalize for the NNAP some of the key opportunities in nanotechnology research over the short, medium and long term. Input from the TAG has been considered and is represented in the report you have before you today.

NNAP Report

The approach we took during our first assessment of the NNI was to ask some basic questions that encompass the requirements of the Act and that we perceived to be the most pressing questions the President, the Congress and the American public wanted answers to. These were:

-- Where do we stand? In other words, how does our competitive position in nanotechnology R&D stack up relative to other countries?

-- Is this money well spent and the program well managed? This encompasses the general request for an external assessment of the NNI.

-- Are we addressing societal concerns and potential risks? Responding to specific Congressional and public concerns, are we paying close enough attention to environmental, health and safety risks and other societal issues?

-- How can we do better? What does the NNAP recommend that will help the U.S. strengthen its nanotechnology effort?

I will summarize our assessment and recommendations, and recommend to the committee our full report for a more thorough review of these issues.

Where do we stand?

In attempting to compare the strength of the U.S. nanotechnology effort internationally, the NNAP reviewed a number of metrics that our members felt were appropriate for assessing the competitive position of the U.S in this new technology area where research and technology discoveries in many cases have yet to reach the marketplace. We looked at available data for levels of international R&D investment by governments (including federal, regional, state, and local), as well as private corporations and venture capital firms. We also surveyed data on patent and publication trends to assess commercial interest and strength of research findings among various countries that are active in nanotechnology.

The data surveyed indicate that, today, the United States is the leader in nanotechnology R&D. The approximately $1 billion annual Federal Government funding for nanotechnology R&D is roughly one- quarter of the current global investment by all nations. Total annual U.S. R&D spending - including Federal, State, and private funding -- now stands at approximately $3 billion, one-third of the approximately $9 billion in total worldwide spending by the public and private sectors. It is noteworthy that State, local and regional governments have been particularly active in promoting nanotechnology development, investing $400 million in 2004 according to one estimate.1 In addition, the United States leads in the number of start-up companies based on nanotechnology, and in research output as measured by patents and publications.

However, the data also show that other countries are aggressively chasing this leadership position, both in terms of ramping up coordinated national programs - many of which are modeled directly on the NNI -- as well as in focusing investments to areas of existing national economic strength. For example, many of the Asian countries are investing heavily in nanoelectronics. Further, the U.S. lead in publications and patents appears to be slipping. Increased international activity is resulting in increased competitive pressure from other nations and, in the opinion of the NNAP, an increased urgency that the U.S. continues its focus on nanotechnology R&D excellence.

Is this money well spent and the program well managed?

Chapter 2 of the report provides an assessment of the NNI program and its accomplishments. The NNAP also evaluated the Administration's recently released Strategic Plan and the mechanisms in place to manage the program. The NNAP concludes that the money the United States is investing in nanotechnology is money very well spent, and that continued robust funding is important for the Nation's long-term economic well-being and national security.

Nanotechnology holds tremendous potential for stimulating innovation and thereby enabling or maintaining U.S. leadership in industries that span all sectors. The NNAP concludes that the strategic focus of the NNI on expanding knowledge of nanoscale phenomena and on discovery of nanoscale and nanostructured materials, devices, and systems, along with building an infrastructure to support such studies, has been both appropriate and wise. The NNI has accomplished much already advancing foundational knowledge, promoting technology transfer for commercial and public benefit, developing an infrastructure of user facilities and instrumentation, and taking steps to address societal concerns and we believe the economic pay-offs over the long term should be substantial.

The NNAP commends the NNI in particular for making the long-term commitment to nanotechnology R&D through the establishment of a geographically distributed suite of centers of excellence and broadly available user facilities. Largely university-based, the centers provide education of skilled scientists and engineers as well as serving as focal points of multidisciplinary R&D and, hopefully, new economic opportunities that are geographically dispersed. User facilities, such as the five Department of Energy Nanoscale Science Research Centers, provide access for all researchers to state-ofthe- art equipment and expertise for advanced nanotechnology R&D. Staff at the Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee the first of the DOE centers to become fully operational are currently installing equipment and hiring additional researchers.

At this time, the NNI appears well positioned to maintain United States leadership going forward, through both its coordinated interagency approach to planning and implementing the Federal R&D program and its efforts to interact with industry and the public. This approach is clearly outlined in the recently released NNI Strategic Plan, which spells out the goals and priorities for the initiative for the next 5 to 10 years. The NNAP surveyed the TAG to augment our review of this Plan, and we believe it provides an appropriate way to organize and manage the program, and that the goals and priorities outlined in the Plan are likewise appropriate.

There are a number of cautionary notes and minor recommendations contained in our report, which I will detail in a few minutes when I discuss how we can do better, and I would be happy to answer any other questions on items I may not have covered in my testimony. However, overall I think I can safely say that the NNAP endorses current funding and management of the NNI and believes the strategic direction of the program is sound at this point.

Are we addressing societal concerns and potential risks?

The NNAP believes that the societal implications of nanotechnology including environmental and health effects must be taken into account simultaneously with the scientific advances being underwritten by the Federal Government. In its review, the Panel found that the NNI does recognize this, and is moving deliberately to identify, prioritize, and address these concerns. The NNI and NNCO are more organized on this front than when the PCAST first began its review of the NNI two years ago. Because, as many members of the Congress and this Committee have rightly pointed out, addressing risks and societal concerns is so important, the NNAP placed special emphasis on this topic, and will continue to do so.

In order to gain insight into environmental, health, and safety issues around nanotechnology, the NNAP convened a panel of experts from Government regulatory agencies, academia, and the private sector. Based on this panel discussion, as well as on information received from the NSET Subcommittee and its TAG, the NNAP believes that potential risks do exist and that the Government is directing appropriate attention and adequate resources to the research that will ensure the protection of the public and the environment. The NNAP is particularly pleased that strong communication exists among the agencies that fund nanotechnology research and those responsible for regulatory decision-making. The pertinent government agencies are devoting more attention and resources toward these issues than most people may realize.

In addition to research into issues related to environmental, health, and safety effects of nanotechnology, the NNI's diverse and growing R&D program is exploring other societal issues such as economic, workforce, and ethical impacts. The NNAP believes that understanding the impact of a new technology on society is vital to ensuring that development takes place in a responsible manner. The NNAP is pleased with the level of discourse on societal issues and believes these efforts should continue. In addition, communication with the various stakeholders, including the public, on these topics is an important element of the program. Therefore, we were pleased that the interagency group managing the NNI established a new subgroup to address the topic of public engagement.

One societal issue that I would say has engendered the most lingering concern for the NNAP during this review is one which also affects the broader science and technology enterprise and about which PCAST has previously studied and reported. That is, the health of science education in the U.S. and the projected shortage of a qualified science and technology workforce. The future economic prosperity of the United States will depend on a workforce that both is large enough and has the necessary skills to meet the challenges being posed by global competition. This will be especially important in allowing the United States to maintain its leadership role in nanotechnology and the industries that will use nanotechnology. The NNI has launched a range of educationrelated programs appropriate for classrooms at all levels and across the country, along with other programs that are aimed at the broader public. While the NNI cannot be expected to solve the Nation's science education problems single-handedly, the NNAP believes that NNI activities can help improve science education and attract more bright young minds into careers in science and engineering. The issue of science education in the U.S. is one about which the PCAST feels strongly, and I would direct you to our previous report, "Sustaining the Nation's Innovation Ecosystem: Maintaining the Strength of Our Science and Engineering Capabilities" for more information and for our views on this issue generally.

How can we do better?

This chapter of our report presents NNAP recommendations for how we feel the NNI program can be strengthened and improved. I will describe briefly the areas in which our recommendations are principally focused, and would be happy to answer questions about these and any of the other recommendations in our report.

Technology Transfer: The issue of facilitating the transfer of technology from government labs or universities into the marketplace is a subject that I know this Committee has been interested in and which generates a significant amount of discussion. In the case of nanotechnology, the level of interest and investment across many industrial sectors is growing and will likely outpace Government investment in the United States soon, if it hasn't already. In our report, the NNAP recognizes and applauds current efforts to promote technology transfer, such as ongoing dialogues between the NNI and various industries and recent efforts by research agencies to direct Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) contracts toward nanotechnology projects. However, the NNAP also believes there are additional steps the NNI should take to further communicate with and establish links to U.S. industry in order to facilitate technology transfer from the lab to the marketplace.

The NNAP calls out two particular areas that could augment the existing suite of activities and enhance commercialization of research results. The first of these is increasing NNI's outreach to the States, which, as previously noted, are directing considerable funding toward nanotechnology projects. The NNAP believes that greater Federal-State interaction can leverage the investments and competencies of both. States, in particular, have a strong interest in and capacity for stimulating economic development and commercial activity.

A notable example of State activity is Albany NanoTech, home to five R&D centers and the College of Nanoscale Sciences and Engineering at the State University of New York (SUNY) Albany. As you heard in testimony by Mr. Michael Fancher at the May 18th hearing that you convened, Albany NanoTech has attracted over $1 billion in private investment and has over 100 partnerships with other universities, federal labs, and industry. Programs in nanoelectronics have led to close relationships with major electronics firms such as IBM, ASML, Tokyo Electron and International Sematech. Oregon is another state that has developed a nanotechnology initiative and committed state funds to support infrastructure development for Oregon's Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute. The University of South Carolina has invested in the creation of the USC NanoCenter to serve as a focal point for the University's nanotechnology research, to foster multidisciplinary research and education efforts, and to promote economic development. South Carolina's NanoCenter has developed a special emphasis on creating dialogue concerning the societal and ethical implications of nanotechnology. These are a few examples of specific state and regional activities.

Obviously, there are others, including states like California, Texas and Illinois, all of which are very active in supporting technology clusters to spur economic development. The NNI has begun to reach out and understand what the states are doing, as evidenced in workshop on Regional, State, and Local Nanotechnology Initiatives held in late 2003. The NNAP encourages more outreach to the States to help leverage the Federal investment. Such efforts would complement those NNI activities already underway with various industrial sectors. The NNAP believes the States perform a vital role in fostering economic development through business assistance programs, tax incentives, and other means. The NNAP believes that practical application of NNIfunded research results, workforce development, and other national benefits will increase with improved Federal-State coordination.

A second, related effort is the development of improved knowledge management of NNI assets. Funding for the NNI to date has resulted in a vast network of assets that should, through proper management, be available to outside researchers and other private interests. The NNAP recommends the NNI focus on improving access to its knowledge assets - including user facilities and instrumentation available to outside researchers, research results, and derivative intellectual property. Through mechanisms such as publicly available and searchable databases, the NNI can and should improve infrastructure utilization and the transfer of technology to the private sector.

While the NNAP agrees that ultimate commercialization of nanotechnology is desirable and to be supported, I do want to emphasize that the Panel feels strongly that the NNI must remain mindful of its primary focus toward developing an understanding, through research and development, of the novel properties that occur at the nanoscale and the ability to control matter at the atomic and molecular level. While we all want the United States to benefit economically from nanotechnology as quickly as possible, it is critically important that the basic intellectual property surrounding nanotechnology be generated and reside within this country. Those who hold this knowledge and who have a workforce prepared to exploit it will "own" commercialization in the future.

Environmental and Health Implications: Picking up on the issues raised in Chapter 3, the NNAP recommends the NNI continue its efforts to understand the possible toxicological effects of nanotechnology and, where harmful human or environmental effects are proven, that the pertinent Federal agencies should promptly regulate accordingly. Nanotechnology products should not be immune from regulation, but such regulation must be based on science and rationality, not perceived fears and irrationality. Judging on where we are today with existing research and regulation, it appears that the public and the environment are adequately protected through existing regulatory authorities. However, the NNAP encourages continued research into possible toxicological effects - particularly in the workplace - and urges Government regulatory agencies to work together to ensure that any regulatory policies that are developed are based on the best available science and are consistent among the agencies. The NNAP recommends coordinating and sharing environmental, health and safety research results internationally to ensure that that efforts are not duplicated unnecessarily and information is shared widely. The NNAP will continue to monitor the development of these issues very closely.

Program Component Area Flexibility: In accordance with the Act, the interagency group that coordinates the NNI has identified seven Program Component Areas (PCAs) that generally follow the broad categories of foundational research being conducted today. The PCAs represent areas in which ongoing and coordinated investment across multiple agencies will be required to support development of the many anticipated applications of nanotechnology. The NNAP recommends that these PCAs be regularly re-examined and adjusted as necessary to track the developments in the nanotechnology R&D field. Today's PCAs should not be viewed as set in stone, and today's organizational choices cannot be allowed to continue indefinitely and thereby to drive the future progression of the program. We cannot know where the state of nanotechnology will be 10 years from now, but we can be fairly certain it will be considerably different than exists today.

Education/Workforce Preparation: A key to realizing the economic benefits of nanotechnology will be the establishment of an infrastructure capable of educating and training an adequate number of researchers, teachers, and technical workers. To maximize the value of its investment in developing materials and programs for education and worker training, the NNAP felt that better relationships should be established between the NNI and the Departments of Education and Labor. While the science agencies such as the National Science Foundation (NSF) can conduct education research and design excellent programs and materials, ultimately the mission agencies, Education and Labor, must be engaged to disseminate these programs and materials as widely as possible throughout the Nation's education and training systems.

The NNAP also felt that the NNI's education focus should be on promoting science fundamentals at K-16 levels, while encouraging the development and incorporation of nanotechnology-related material into science and engineering education. To promote mid- career training for professionals, the NNAP recommends that the NNI partner with and support professional societies and trade associations that have continuing education as a mission.

Other Societal Implications: The NNAP strongly supports continued NNI funding for research aimed at understanding the societal implications of nanotechnology, including ethical, economic, and legal aspects. The NNAP members believe the NNI also must work to inform the public about nanotechnology and seek to understand and address public concerns about this emerging area of technology development. Now more than ever, those who are developing new scientific knowledge and technologies must be aware of the impact their efforts may have on society. Nanotechnology, like biotechnology, has the potential to require individuals, corporations, and governments to make decisions that have ethical, legal, and other societal implications. The NNI must actively engage scholars who represent disciplines that might not have been previously engaged in nanotechnology-related research to address these issues. Moreover, these efforts should be integrated with conventional scientific and engineering research programs so that the people who develop nanotechnology are more fully aware of the societal implications of their work. While the NNAP generally felt that the NNI through its National Nanotechnology Coordination Office (NNCO) has done a good job initiating public outreach and is working to facilitate stakeholder discourse on these subjects, we would encourage continued attention to societal issues into the future.

Other Recommendations / NNAP Report Schedule: Beyond the issues I have highlighted, the NNAP report generally endorses the NNI and recommends continued robust funding to help maintain U.S. leadership. We also suggest increased coordination with other interagency groups and more involvement by agencies not participating in NNI at a level appropriate to their mission, most notably DHS. Finally, there are a few administrative items, such as a recommendation that the NNAP report schedule be adjusted to more adequately complement NNI strategic plan reporting activities. These recommendations and others are more fully described in the report, and I would be happy to respond to any follow-up questions you have.

Conclusion

In conclusion, speaking as a member of the NNAP who has been very closely involved in studying and monitoring developments in nanotechnology over the past several years, and as a an early participant in the semiconductor research industry, I am personally excited about the continual flow of new discoveries and truly revolutionary opportunities made possible by nanotechnology R&D. I believe the NNAP report echoes this enthusiasm and conveys our general support for continuing down the path of robust funding and support for the NNI in order to maintain the U.S. competitive edge in this emerging area. I particularly appreciate the work of this committee and the support in Congress generally for nanotechnology R&D, and I look forward to continued dialogue with you on this important research endeavor.

*******************

Article 66

Good morning, and welcome to our second hearing on nanotechnology. Last month, the Research Subcommittee heard from experts about examples of successful partnerships between government and the public and private sectors and discussed barriers to future advancement. They also cited the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) as a successful program that is helping advance the nanotechnology industry. 

Also last month, the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) released a report on the state of, and outlook for, nanotechnology in the U.S. On the whole, the report is very encouraging, and am I glad to see Mr. Floyd Kvamme, the Co-Chair of PCAST, as one of our witnesses here today. The good news is that the United States still leads the world by most metrics, including funding, patents, and scientific publications. But I find it troubling that other countries are catching up, and not just in funding. I hope we can talk today about ways the U.S. can maintain its status as a world leader in these emerging technologies.

I've said it before: I'm not a scientist by background. My miniscule knowledge of nanotechnology (pun intended) is a result of preparing for hearings such as this, and it is driven by the realization that this technology will quickly become as commonplace as the Internet. Nanotechnology is already changing the products we use and has the potential to revitalize our manufacturing base. It promises to impact virtually every field with applications in fields from energy to defense to health care to transportation.

Just yesterday, we rolled-out the House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus, with the ultimate goal of leading us to a national hydrogen economy. I'm excited to hear that efforts are already underway to use nanotechnology to improve hydrogen production, storage and fuel cells. The development of this technology is truly amazing and holds great promise. As many of you know, a hydrogen economy is an issue near to my heart, as is the education of our nation's children in math and science. It is imperative that we encourage and nurture a future generation of scientists to help us maintain our prominence in nanotechnology and in other critically important scientific fields.

This is why today's hearing is so important. As the PCAST report shows, the U.S. is currently ahead of the nanotechnology curve, but other nations continue to invest more and more time, energy and money in their nanotechnology efforts. If we pause even to glance over our shoulders, we will see them on the horizon, several of whom are already on our heels and pushing to take the lead. This possibility is no small matter. Our last stronghold of competition is innovation, and the United States can not afford to lose the lead on this technology. Today, I hope our witnesses will address our current nanotechnology position relative to other countries, from an R&D perspective and from a business perspective; discuss where our greatest opportunities for breakthroughs are and what the potential impacts may be in the near-term and the long-term. Furthermore, we hope to hear what barriers exist to commercializing nanotechnology, how we can overcome them, and the federal government's role in the process.


*******************

Article 67

The U.S. leads the world in nanotechnology today, but its position is tenuous. To maintain global leadership, U.S. policy makers must grow federal funding for nanotech research; eliminate regulatory uncertainty surrounding environmental, health, and safety issues; and do a better job of retaining foreign Ph.D. students. In addition, the U.S. must create financial incentives aligned with desirable applications and approach export controls sensibly.

The U.S. Leads the World in Nanotechnology Today

Nanotechnology is the purposeful engineering of matter at scales of less than 100 nanometers (nm) to achieve size-dependent properties and functions. Nanotech innovations occupy a value chain starting with nanomaterials like carbon nanotubes and dendrimers, followed by intermediate products like memory chips and drug delivery carriers built with nanomaterials, and ending with enhanced final goods like mobile phones and cancer therapies (see Figure 1). Lux Research projects that new, emerging nanotechnology applications will affect nearly every type of manufactured good over the next ten years, becoming incorporated into 15% of global manufacturing output totaling $2.6 trillion in 2014. 

Multiple Metrics Testify to the Position of the U.S.

Massive investment is going into nanotech - $8.6 billion combined in government spending, corporate R&D, and venture capital worldwide in 2004, up 10% from 2003 (see Figure 4-1).2 By most measures, the U.S. leads in nanotechnology today, including:

-- Absolute public sector spending. Of the $4.6 billion spent by governments on nanotechnology R&D last year, the U.S. led in absolute terms with nearly $1.6 billion; runner-up Japan spent less than two-thirds as much at $1.0 billion (see Figure 4-2).

-- Patents issued. U.S. leadership in patent activity in general is amplified when it comes to nanotechnology. While 56% of total issued patents at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office are assigned to U.S.-based entities, 69% of nanotech patents are.

-- Corporate R&D spending. We conservatively estimate that corporations worldwide spent $3.8 billion on nanotechnology R&D in 2004; of this, $1.7 billion was spent by corporations based in the U.S., far more than in any other country.

-- Scientific publications. Of a representative sample of 109,728 articles published in peerreviewed journals about nanoscience and nanotechnology through June 2005, 24% were authored by U.S.-based scientists - exceeding second-place China (at 13%) and third- place Japan (at 11%) by a wide margin (see Figure 4-4).6

Deeply Embedded Sociocultural Values Drive U.S. Leadership

The U.S. owes its leadership position in nanotechnology to wise decisions, made by both governments and private sector entities like venture capital investors, about how science and technology innovations should be commercialized. These decisions, in turn, stem from deeply embedded sociocultural values - for example, that successful risk-taking innovators should capture large rewards, and that short-term failure is a step toward long-term success. The U.S. benefits from:

-- World-class universities that create grist for the commercialization mill. Universities provide an effective vehicle for transferring cutting-edge technology from the lab to the manufacturing floor.7 The U.S. serves as a model for the world in this regard, for both high technology in general and nanotech in particular. U.S. investment in knowledge as a percentage of GDP totaled 6.8% in 2000, topping the league tables of the first- world OECD countries.8 The Bayh-Dole Act of 1980 gave universities powerful financial incentives to transfer innovation into commercial entities, and corporations working in nanotech eagerly tap these resources: 85% of corporations active in nanotech R&D interviewed by Lux Research in Q4 2004 have university collaborations.

-- A culture of entrepreneurship that thrives on constructive failure. In the U.S., leaving a comfortable corporate job to launch a start-up company is widely considered a positive career move. In other first-world countries, it may either be viewed as foolish or be nearly impossible to accomplish. Hotbeds like Massachusetts's Route 128, California's Silicon Valley, and Texas's greater Austin area teem with the combination of innovative thinkers, technical talent, and experienced management needed to forge a successful start-up. It's no surprise that, of approximately 1,200 nanotech start-ups active in 2004, half were located in the U.S.10

-- World-leading availability of risk capital. Although corporations do an effective job of incubating incremental nanotechnology applications that complement their existing products, disruptive nanotechnology applications overwhelmingly arise from start-up companies such as Aspen Aerogels, Nanospectra Biosciences, and Nantero. Venture capital is the lifeblood of these small firms, and the U.S. claims 56% of venture capital deployed in start-ups globally.11

The Dominant U.S. Position in Nanotechnology Lies at Risk

Despite the U.S.'s strong position in nanotechnology, other countries - from the usual suspects like Japan and South Korea to surprises like Australia and Israel - challenge its dominance. Witness:

-- U.S. loss of spending leadership on a relative basis. Although the U.S. puts more government funding to work on nanotech research than any other country on an absolute basis, it has already fallen behind Asian competitors on a relative basis. This trend becomes even more apparent when spending levels are corrected for purchasing-power parity, reflecting the difference in what a dollar buys from one country to the next. On this basis, the U.S. invested $5.42 per capita in government spending on nanotechnology last year, exceeded by South Korea at $5.62, Japan at $6.30, and Taiwan at $9.40 - nearly twice the level of the U.S. .

Government Corporate Venture capital Source: 2004 Lux Research reference study "The Nanotech Report 2004;" Science Citation Index search

-- Industrial policy abroad aimed at dominating specific product segments. U.S. industrial policy eschews direct government/industry collaboration for leadership in specific applications. In Europe and Asia, many governments pursue the strategies that the U.S. avoids, giving foreign competitors a leg up on their U.S. rivals. For example, of the $640 million allocated to Taiwan's Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Initiative over five years, 60% is earmarked for "strategic industry applications" developed collaboratively between government institutions and industrial champions. Two of Taiwan's top nanotechnology applications are magnetoresistive RAM,

-- Leadership of high-volume, near-term applications on foreign shores. In many specific, promising application domains, researchers in other countries have begun to outpace the U.S. in developing intellectual property - even when measured by patents issued within the U.S. patent system. Consider carbon nanotubes in displays, where the wonder materials have been proposed for a new type of large, flat-panel monitor that could outperform LCD and plasma at lower cost and energy consumption. Of 70 patents for carbon nanotube display applications issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office through February 2005, only 17% were issued to entities based in the U.S. compared with 29% in Japan and 31% in South Korea.

-- Innovative efforts in unexpected places. Scientists in countries with a less rich history of science and technology innovation are not lagging when it comes to nanotech. On the contrary, they are studying U.S. scientific publications, being educated in U.S. universities, and orienting their initial capital investments toward the instrumentation needed for nanotechnology research, without having to maintain technology infrastructures and skill sets that were cuttingedge 20 years ago. The result: impressive efforts in countries not known for scientific leadership. The $130 million in estimated government spending on nanotech last year in China equaled $611 million at purchasing-power parity, or 38% of U.S. expenditure; in addition, China recently launched a world-leading effort to set standards for nanomaterials.15 Further, some countries that the U.S. considers to represent strategic threats have thriving nanotech programs; the Iranian NanoTechnology Initiative was ordered by none other than President Mohammed Khatami.

-- Lack of concern with violating intellectual property (IP) protection. Companies exploiting nanotechnology depend on international property protection to defend their freedom to operate. Yet in many foreign countries, lax enforcement of intellectual property means that rivals appear to ignore patents in practice. In the crowded field of metal oxide nanoparticles, with applications in everything from sunscreens to rocket fuels, 74 companies compete globally, eight of which are in China. The U.S.- and European-based companies - like NanoGram, Nanophase, and Nanotechnologies Inc., - depend on proprietary, patented production processes. for their differentiation and financial valuations. But the Chinese manufacturers stress their ability to deliver identical products at prices 15% to 20% cheaper - and generally refuse to name their production processes, raising suspicion that they are using Westerners' patent filings like recipe books. With lax Chinese IP enforcement and no way to infer a manufacturing process from the nanoparticles that result, U.S. nanoparticle firms have limited means to compete.

Entrepreneurs Face Steep Hurdles on the Path from University Lab to Successful Start-Up

For the U.S. to remain highly competitive, it must help start-ups overcome:

-- Funding gaps. The widespread perception that nanotechnology start-ups have more venture capital than they can reasonably deploy is dead wrong. In fact, venture funding for nanotechnology start-ups declined from $385 million in 2002 to $200 million in 2004, and accounted for only 2% of nanotechnology R&D funding that year; cautious VCs burned by the Internet bubble hesitate to commit more cash until they see substantial exits (see Figure 6).17 To encourage entrepreneurs to bring nanotech innovations out of university laboratories and into the commercial arena, government funding through vehicles like Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grants and the National Institute of Science and Technology's Advanced Technology Program (ATP) is an absolute necessity.

-- Human resource gaps. The U.S. is not generating enough Science and Engineering Master's degree and Ph.D. holders to maintain leadership in nanotechnology. Tighter controls on student visas since the September 11 attacks have reduced the inflow of Ph.D. students to the United States in favor of Western Europe, and as economies in China, India, and South Korea develop, foreign scientists are less likely to remain in the U.S. for their careers than they were a decade ago. Nobel Laureate Richard Smalley from Rice University has noted that at current rates, by 2010, 90% of all physical scientists will be Asian and 50% of them will be practicing in Asia.

-- Manufacturability gaps. Nanotechnology start-ups must cross a much ballyhooed "valley of death" to obtain the risk capital funding required to move the business forward. Yet they also must cross another, related, valley between small-scale benchtop production volumes and the pilot-scale production required to win commercial contracts. Our contacts with nanotechnology researchers indicate that the Nanoscale Science Research Centers scattered throughout the U.S. assist with basic research only (not scale-up), are ill-used, and do not help bridge this gap. As a result, many start-ups spend redundant millions to build the same manufacturing pilot plants that they end up using perhaps 10% of the time; dedicated, shared manufacturing facilities devoted to technology incubation would help bridge this gap more cost-effectively.

The U.S. Government Must Take Concerted Action to Maintain Leadership

We recommend that the U.S. government:

-- Grow federal funding for nanotechnology research. To maintain leadership, the U.S. National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) must be funded at or beyond current budget request levels. It should not be assumed that U.S. states will pick up any slack should federal spending ebb: Although U.S. states spent $432 million last year, complementing approximately $1.15 billion at the federal level, most of this money went to initial purchases of equipment and construction of facilities, not to funding ongoing research activity by Ph.D. and postdoctoral students. This state spending essentially represents one-time capital expenditure unlikely to be sustained.

-- Eliminate uncertainty surrounding environmental, health, and safety (EHS) issues.

Nanoparticles present new EHS issues; not enough fundamental toxicity research has been done on nanoparticles to decisively determine what hazards they may pose to workers, the public, and the environment - or how such hazards may be mitigated. We believe fundamental research on nanoparticle toxicity can realistically be performed only under a government aegis; to perform it, the U.S. government must at least double the small sums currently allocated at the federal level for nanotech EHS research, which totaled only 3.7% of the 2006 NNI request (see Figure 7).18 Beyond fundamental research, agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency have not yet established firm guidelines for how new nanoparticles will be treated under existing, or potentially new, regulatory schemes. While this unwillingness to rush to judgment before all the facts are in is well intentioned, it has perverse effects: Based on our contact with individuals driving nanotech initiatives at America's largest corporations, it's clear to us that ambiguity surrounding EHS regulation of nanoparticles is hampering commercialization - firms do not want to play a game whose rules may change at any time. To move forward, the EPA, the FDA, and NIOSH must issue clear guidance to industry on how they plan to approach nanoparticles.

-- Attract U.S. students to science and engineering and retain foreign ones. As with many science and technology fields, funding and development incentives for nanotechnology research will amount to nothing without a steady stream of advanced science and engineering degree holders entering the workforce. The U.S. should strengthen programs designed to inspire

-- Create financial incentives aligned with desirable applications. We believe U.S. economic development policy is right not to fund specific solutions to broad technology problems. However, the U.S. would be well served by government programs that provide funds to nanotechnology researchers, giving them incentives to develop applications with well-defined ends, without specifying particular technology means. Such programs can be coordinated through existing agencies and require no incremental bureaucracy.

Consider NASA's $11 million project with Rice University to develop extremely low-loss power cables based on carbon nanotubes: Such cables could enable a national power grid, shuttling electricity from locations of sustainable resources to areas of high demand without losing it on the way. The National Renewable Energy Laboratory estimates that solar cells covering a 100- by 100-mile area in Nevada could meet the U.S.'s entire energy needs, but without low-loss power cables the electricity could never reach demand hubs like Chicago and New York.

-- Employ export controls sensibly, without choking nanotech commercialization. Export controls for products incorporating nanotechnology have become a hot topic inside the Beltway; individuals representing multiple organizations across branches of government have independently sought Lux Research's advice on this issue. We believe that export controls for "nanotechnology" per se are a dead end. The field is too broad; such action would be like trying to impose export controls on assembly-line manufacturing techniques and the equipment used to implement them - impossible to carry out rationally. Instead, we believe the U.S. should identify relevant nanotechnology applications (e.g., radiation-hardened solar cells, highfrequency beam-steerable antennas, nanoparticulate propellants and explosives) and impose sensible export controls on them within existing frameworks rather than introducing new ones.

*******************

Article 68


My name is Sean Murdock, and I am the Executive Director of the NanoBusiness Alliance. The NanoBusiness Alliance is the premier nanotechnology policy and commercialization advocacy group in the United States. NanoBusiness Alliance members span multiple stakeholder groups and traditional industrial sectors, including newly formed start-ups surviving on angel funding or SBIR grants, Fortune 500 companies with multimillion dollar commitments to nanotechnology R&D, academic research institutions, and public- private partnerships working to derive economic development and growth through nanotechnology. This wide group of stakeholders has come together because we believe that nanotechnology will be one of the key drivers of business success, economic growth and quality-of-life improvements in the 21st century. The Alliance provides a collective voice and a vehicle for efforts to advance the benefits of nanotechnology across our economy and society. 

With that perspective in mind, I would like to share with you my thoughts on the United States' competitive position in both the research and commercialization of nanotechnology. The U.S. is leading the world in nanoscience today, but our lead is narrow and we face stiff and accelerating competition. Action, both in terms of spending and policy, is required at the Federal, State, and local levels to assure that we maintain this lead. Since this subcommittee has relatively strong familiarity with nanotechnology and the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research & Development Act, I only need to give some highlights of the potential of nanotechnology and why it is so important. It is my belief and the belief of every member of the Alliance that nanotechnology will have a tremendous impact on virtually every sector of the global economy, a belief that is reflected in the diversity of our membership. In some industries, such as data storage, companies without a nanotechnology strategy already cannot compete. This will become pervasive in all industry sectors that produce goods rather than services. Furthermore, I believe that nanotechnology is not just a tremendous economic driver, but that its implications for homeland security, defense, cleaning the environment, and developing renewable, sustainable energy sources should make its development a key strategic as well as economic goal for the U.S. For these reasons, we as a nation and as the last superpower cannot afford to hold anything less than a commanding leadership position in the commercialization of nanotechnology.

Investing in nanotechnology could also bring other benefits, beyond the creation of jobs, bolstering of the economy, and strategic leadership. Investing in commercialization allows us to reinvest in nanoscience education, research, and development, forging a virtuous circle that will ensure our children enjoy the same improvement in quality of life that we have. Nanotechnology's potential to provide solutions to the grand challenges of today could provide a rallying point and inspire interest comparable to the race to overtake Sputnik in the 50's and 60's, still one of the greatest periods of innovation in American history. The stakes are incredibly high. The NSF has estimated that the global impact of nanotechnology enabled products and services will be $1 trillion by 2015. Many considered this estimate to be quite lofty when it was made in 2000 with the launch of the National Nanotechnology Initiative. However, more recent estimates for the global impact of nanotechnology enabled goods are even larger than the NSF's. In Realis, a consulting group, has predicted that nanotech will impact up to $2 trillion of global economic output, while Evolution Capital, an investment bank, estimates that the market will reach $1 trillion 5 years earlier in 2010. Finally, in perhaps the most rigorous study to date, Lux Research, a nanotechnology analyst group, has estimated that nanotech will impact $2.6 trillion in global economic output by 2015 .

Research While these estimates are mind-numbingly large, a brief mention of some prospective applications and estimated time to market helps to make them more tangible and more credible. Simple and passive applications of nanotechnology including nanoparticles, coatings, catalysts, and nanocomposites are already on the market, while more revolutionary applications, including the first generation of nanotechnology-enabled pharmaceuticals, bulk nanomaterials, sensors, and many more are beyond the research stage and well into the product pipeline. In additional to developing revolutionary products, nanotechnology will radically change the cost-structures of many industries, making non-nano alternatives simply non-competitive.

catalysts On the strategic side, nanotechnology will enable dramatic enhancements in military and homeland security capabilities. Start-ups are working on new protective armor, chem/bio suits, and chem/bio sensors, as well as a variety of technologies such as quantum computing and encryption which have enormous dual-use applications.

Given the potential of nanotechnology and the evidence of traction toward realizing that potential, it is increasingly clear that nanotechnology will be a game changing technology. Economists estimate that technology innovation in the U.S. (transistors, integrated circuits, recombinant DNA, etc) generated half of the economic growth over the past fifty years. Nanotechnology is likely to be the engine of innovation for the next fifty years, and we must be at the forefront of this innovation.

That is the importance of nanotechnology as a national goal, but it does not answer the question of where the country currently stands with respect to other nanotechnology leaders such as China, Japan, and the E.U., the other global leaders in nanotech. Fortunately, at the current time, the U.S. is clearly in a leadership position, evidenced by its strength in investment, scientific publications, and patents. This should not be taken for granted - key innovations have been developed in the E.U. (such as the electron microscope, the instrument that helped enable all nanotech research) and Japan (such as the discovery of the nanotube, the most versatile and powerful nanomaterial yet developed).

Ironically, the challenges to U.S. domination of nanotechnology are in part a result of our early support of nanotechnology. The formal launch of the NNI in 2000 brought the potential of nanotechnology into the world consciousness and initiated a race for global leadership. As a result, the U.S. share of global government expenditures has dropped since 2001, despite the absolute commitment more than doubling in the same time period from $465MM to $960MM.

Not surprisingly, the growth in foreign investment in nanotechnology R&D has helped other nations to gain ground in the development of new knowledge, innovations and the production of human capital.

Of particular competitive concern is China. The Scientist, an American academic journal, said that from January to August 2004 China had presented 3,621 research papers on nanotechnology, more than any other country, as tabulated by the Scientific Citation Index. According to the article, China published 14 percent more papers than the United States in that time period. Furthermore, China currently has more than 3,000 researchers who are engaged in related programs and has had series of innovative achievements according to the director of China's National Center for Nanoscience and Technology and the vice-president of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.

While knowledge development and nanoscience R&D create value, it is through the commercialization of nanotechnology into new processes and products that businesses will create jobs and nations will see a return on their investments. According to the NanoBusiness Alliance's proprietary database on all companies involved with nanotechnology worldwide, a little over 50% of the companies are in the United States (613 of 1175). However, if one is to believe the announcements made at the ChinaNano2005 trade expo that China has almost 800 companies involved with nanotechnology and a recent EU report claiming that Europe has 500, the share would appear to be significantly lower.

Unfortunately, it is notoriously difficult to track commercial developments in nanotechnology, so we cannot be precisely sure.

However, the rate of formation of new nanotech start-ups over the past several years has been relatively stagnant.

2000 2001 2002 2003 This is, perhaps, one of the most disconcerting indicators for nanotechnology in the U.S. The entrepreneurial culture and deployment of risk capital, especially venture capital, toward early stage technology companies has been a key source of competitive advantage for the United States. This historic advantage appears to be at risk.

Although we lead in the number of nanotechnology startups, these startups need risk capital to bring these nanotechnology innovations to market. The so called "valley of death," the period between a company's formation and its achieving significant cashflow, is particularly acute for nanotechnology. Most nanotech innovations require significant investment and "platform" development before any revenues can be generated because they are based upon fundamental breakthroughs in basic research at universities and federal labs. Burned by the dot com bubble and needing to raise IRR's in order to raise the next fund, VC's have been shying away from "platform" technologies without near term commercialization processes and end market economics. In fact, the total VC financing over the past seven years is approximately the same as the US government investment in 2004 .

Furthermore, the investment to date has been highly concentrated in a few, mature nanotech companies. $150.00 $200.00 Highlighting this trend, almost all of the venture capital that went to nanotech companies in the first quarter of 2005 was placed into 4 companies, NanoTex ($33 MM), Nanomix ($17 MM), Nantero ($17 MM), and NanoOpto ($12MM). While leading Fortune 500 companies have nanotechnology initiatives and some funding for R&D, most have scaled back their early stage research and development in response to stock market pressure for near term profitability and reducing costs. Many companies plan to "innovate through acquisition," relying upon start-ups to develop and commercialize innovations. This further expands the "valley of death" since companies are looking for startups to have developed their technologies far enough for ease of integration. It also means that more than ever start-ups represent the product pipeline for large corporations, and that their successful formation is key not only to creating new prosperity, but continuing our existing prosperity. Until the VC cycle changes again and the stock markets allow companies to adopt longer time horizons, we have a substantial and growing "valley of death." Since the market is not prepared to take on this risk, the government needs to develop programs to bridge this gulf.

Given the current landscape, there are a few key initiatives that the Federal government can take to revitalize nanotechnology commercialization here and bolster our global lead.

The Federal investment in infrastructure and user facilities is part of the solution. These facilities, in theory, provide access to critical and expensive equipment, and reduce the capital intensity of nanotech commercialization activity. However, many nanotech start-ups lack the process knowledge and internal capabilities to make effective use of these investments. The government must also ensure sufficient operating funds to provide services and train the start-ups, or the assets will be underutilized and the investment will not generate the return we expect.

The U.S. government must be the "gold standard" as the most hospitable climate for commercializing nanotech innovations. We must lead in the development of new nanotech knowledge and research infrastructure. As such, our share of worldwide government investment should be at least on par with our share of global GDP.

We should establish goal-oriented research programs to address our grand challenges. While much fundamental research remains to be done, we should endeavor to do it to the extent possible within the context of its potential uses. The National Cancer Institute's Centers for Cancer Nanotechnology Excellence (CCNEs) provide a model for this.

To quote the recent solicitation, "The CCNEs will be a national resource that will integrate nanotechnology development into basic and applied cancer research to facilitate the rapid application of this science in the clinic. This initiative will catalyze targeted discovery and development efforts that offer the greatest opportunity for advances in the near and medium terms and will lower the barriers for those advances to be translated to the private sector for commercial development." The NCI has established clear objectives without constraining how to get achieve them, and thus the creativity of the scientists pursuing the research. This model should be emulated and extended in other agencies and strategic investment areas. Next, the government must fully and effectively utilize the SBIR and ATP programs to enhance commercialization activity.

Many member companies speak of the "myth" of the SBIR Phase III - the phase where innovations proved out in Phase II are supposed to be brought into use in the sponsoring agency. While the SBIR grants in and of themselves are quite valuable to those attempting to commercialize nanotech innovations, purchases to meet agency needs would generate a sustainable source of revenues and provide customer validation. Furthermore, this would ensure that our agencies, particularly Defense and Homeland Security, remain ahead of the world in terms of nanotech integration capabilities.

The ATP program, although controversial, provides one of the only sources of capital (and thus incentives) for new nanotech innovation ecosystems to form, particularly between U.S. startups and incumbents. If we are to retain jobs in our existing companies and industries, then we will need to integrate the innovations of nanotech start-ups into these sectors rapidly. Without incentives to form domestic partnerships, the value from our nation's investment may be disproportionately captured by foreign companies and governments with patient capital who partner with cash strapped U.S. startups.

However much the government can do directly, in the end, the greatest leverage will be achieved by creating stronger incentives for the private sector to invest and aggressively participate in the commercialization process. To that end, we should investigate establishing a permanent R&D tax credit and possibly create new vehicles like the R&D Limited Partnerships that were instrumental in biotech capital formation. These will unlock not only more of the potential of nanotech, but of all technology-driven industries.

In closing, all technological progress depends first and foremost upon human capital. We must adopt an integrated human capital strategy spanning multiple time horizons. In the near term, we must encourage the best and brightest to come to the U.S., help build out our knowledge base, and transform nanotech inventions to innovations that touch our daily lives. This will mean streamlining immigration requirements for "knowledge" and highly skilled workers so that we not only attract but retain these workers as citizens. In the medium term, we must greatly strengthen our job training programs. In the longer term, we must dramatically strengthen the science and technology education system, the ultimate investment in our commercial future.

*******************

Article 69

Chairman Inglis, Ranking Member Hooley, our homestate Illinois Congressmen Johnson and Lipinski, and members of the Subcommittee Members, good morning. I want to thank you for inviting me to share Motorola's thoughts on where the United States stands competitively and innovatively when it comes to the subject of nanoscience and nanotechnologies.

As the Vice President for IP Incubation & Commercialization at America's largest cell phone manufacturer, I am honored to represent Motorola's 24,000 research scientists and engineers before this distinguished panel that time and again stands up and fights for the complex, fast-moving technology world and the evergrowing high-tech industry.

Today, as we consider the recent report by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) on The National Nanotechnology Initiative at Five Years, I will use it to give you a snapshot of where we stand in relation to our global competitors. I also want to provide you some insights on how Motorola is trailblazing the nanotechnology frontier with breakthrough sciences and commercial applications. 

While the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) is a relatively young concept, those of us in the research and development community know the basic science for its foundation has been around for years. As the PCAST Report states: Scientists and engineers anticipate that nanotechnology will lead to "materials and systems with dramatic new properties relevant to virtually every sector of the economy, such as medicine, telecommunications, and computers, and to areas of national interest such as Homeland Security."

And because of a strong commitment from the Congress and those in the Administration who understand these societal benefits, the U.S. has surged to the forefront of nanotechnology research and development - ahead of Europe, ahead of Asia, ahead of all other competing nations around the globe.

Generally speaking, this rise to prominence has been through good old American collaboration. Thanks to public-private partnerships between Federal and State governments, business and academia, our nanotechnology position has become strong. For instance, Motorola can leverage research performed in a number of our nation's esteemed universities, such as:

-- U.C. Berkeley on better Nano-Tubes and Nano-Wires;

-- Harvard on fabricating nonvolatile electronic memory using Nano-Tubes; and,

-- Stanford on two projects: one to use synthesis technology for biological and chemical sensors and field emission devices; the other to build up a portfolio of Nano-Dots, Nano-Tubes and Nano- Wires for more enhanced electronics.

And while Motorola is still a few weeks away from officially announcing it, I am proud to inform this distinguished panel that this summer Motorola is launching the Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Nanotechnology with Arizona State University. This strong partnership between university and industry will promote nanotechnology education, research and commercialization. ASU will advance the "state of the art" in nanotechnology for communications, while Motorola will use basic and applied technologies to develop useful and innovative products and services for American consumers -better mobile devices, equipment and high frequency applications.

But, the private-sector partnering with academia could not do it alone. We are grateful for federal support through grants as well as research and development tax credits.

The PCAST Report states: the U.S. government this year will spend just over $1 billion on Nano R&D. To put this in perspective, $1 billion is roughly one-quarter of the current global investment by all nations. And when you combine Federal, State and private U.S. dollars, our overall investment jumps to $3 billion, or one- third of the estimated $9 billion in total worldwide spending by the public and private sectors combined on Nano R&D.

To further illustrate the high-tech industry's importance to our economy in terms of jobs, research, sales, and exports, America is at the vanguard in the number of start-up companies based on nanotechnology. We also lead the world in research output as measured by patents and publications - as you can imagine, this number-one position is very important to Motorola today and will continue to be important for our competitive growth in the future. For example, Motorola is near commercialization on the first of its kind 5-inch color video flatscreen using Carbon Nanotube technology. This Nano Emissive Display technology, which provides much brighter and thinner flat panel displays, is now available for licensing. Motorola expects this breakthrough technique could create larger flat panel displays with superior quality, longer lifetimes and lower costs to consumers than current products in the competitive video display market.

While that's the good news, the PCAST Report highlights there are some pressing challenges that threaten our leadership position in the global economy. Specifically, the relative lead the U.S. currently holds is in jeopardy because the rest of the world is catching up in a variety of measurements. In government funding, for example, the rate of increase in the European Union and Asia is higher than that of the U.S. This should be a wake-up call for American researchers and policy-makers alike.

For instance, the EU announced this month the adoption of a Nanosciences/Nanotechnology Action Plan for Europe for 2005- 2009. Their plan proposes measures to be taken at the national and European level to strengthen research and develop useful products and services so that Europe can maintain its competitive edge in the global economy.

In the EU, much work is being leveraged through consortia efforts which promote partnering between companies and universities. And, Japan has had over 20 years of commitment to nanotechnology through funding of broad and focused national programs. Furthermore, China now has over twice as many engineers working in nanotechnology than the U.S. does because it's been identified there, as a "government initiative."

To fully understand the zeal to get a competitive edge in the global market, let's look at Asia in general. While some of these Far East nations may not be spending as much money as the U.S. is today, they are being very strategic by choosing to concentrate their investments in particular areas in order to make significant strides sooner in a specific sector. For example, Korea and Taiwan are investing heavily in Nano-Electronics while Singapore and China are focusing on Nano-Biotechnology and Nano- Materials respectively.

Mr. Chairman, you may be wondering:

-- Why is a continued Federal commitment to nanotech so important?

-- Why should the American taxpayer invest so much in the global race over nano R&D?

-- And maybe most importantly, what are the actual benefits of nanotechnology to American consumers?

Let me answer this way: nanotechnology research holds tremendous potential for stimulating innovation. Its revolutionary applications will enable the U.S. to maintain our global leadership in industries that span all sectors. That's as long as our public policies don't ease off the pedal of momentum or slam on the brakes on critical funding or R&D tax initiatives altogether. And don't worry, the private sector will not abandon this effort either - we're in it for the long haul.

For instance, a few large multinational companies such as IBM, Intel, DuPont and NEC have kicked off major nanotechnology efforts. My company, Motorola, continues to rebuild, retool, and consolidate our nanotechnology programs. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, the number of nano start-ups in the U.S. has increased significantly due to heavy private sector venture capital investing.

However, I want to be candid. One of the biggest challenges before research scientists and engineers - those not necessarily known for their communication skills - is being able to relate to the American people what's actually going on in nanotech labs. This morning, I'd like to give it a shot by using a very popular Motorola product - the mobile phone.

When Motorola launched the 1st cell phone, do you remember how bulky and cumbersome it used to be?

Well, thanks to cutting-edge research utilizing nanotechnology principles at Motorola labs, tomorrow your mobile phone can have better optics, better acoustics, and better displays, more efficient batteries, and overall enriched electronics in a very small form factor.

Specifically, Nano-Composites can make today's cell phones structurally stronger, but physically smaller and lighter. Nano- Displays are larger, brighter and cost less due to embedded carbon nanotubes, and Nano-Power can give this light-weight phone higher capacity power sources for storage and conversion. Let me be as clear as possible: if the Internet improved our quality of life via the Information Superhighway, then nanotechnology should be considered the Express Lane for future technological breakthroughs to make our lives simpler, safer, smarter and more enjoyable. And please remember, we are simply on the cusp of much, much more to come - new advances and more challenges. For instance, understanding the societal implications of nanotechnology -- including ethical, economic, and legal issues - - will still need to be confronted and addressed in the future, and the NNI must work harder and more consistently to better educate our fellow citizens about the wonders of nanotechnology.

And talking about education, there have been many recent reports on the shortage of American workers skilled in science and technology. The U.S. is slipping behind our competitors - Asia in particular - in undergraduate and graduate training.

At Motorola, we have found that everyday we go into the marketplace searching for highly skilled workers, demand far outpaces supply, and this challenge seems to get worse as each month passes. It further illustrates another important component to the global competition we're witnessing in the high-tech industry. No longer is this just about a company's business demand to develop better products against Europe and Asia, but about American companies increasingly under pressure to compete against our rivals when trying to secure our basic workforce needs. Simply put, we must have a well-educated talent pool to survive.

Therefore, Motorola supports the PCAST Report's recommendation that the NNI establish relationships with the Departments of Education and Labor to develop education and training systems to improve the Nation's technical proficiency in areas related to science, technology, engineering and math - better known as the STEM fields.

In addition, immigration policies have to be set to allow, at least in the near term, U.S. trained graduates from foreign countries to stay and work here and in the longer term, a steady influx of new foreign students to come to the U.S. for their education.

On top of much-needed talent to work inside our labs, Motorola also believes there's a need for external funds to boost the physical infrastructure to foster and maintain long-term research. I'd suggest this be a combination of direct funding and R&D tax credits to the nanotechnology labs.

As far as innovation and patenting are concerned, Motorola believes corporate investment in nanotech is very product focused. The scope of research must be longer term. In fact, long- term funding could actually enhance the speed and number of patents that are awarded and help ensure that America retains its global leadership position.

And our competitive edge isn't just about what the Federal or State government should be doing. We, as an industry, must look inside our own operations and see how we can do better. For instance, Motorola needs to take further steps to communicate with and establish links to further facilitate technology transfer from the lab to the marketplace.

As I close, the commercialization of nanotechnology does not necessarily depend upon the creation of new products - such as stain-resistant, wrinkle-free pants, or even new, emerging markets - like those more superior flat-panel displays using Carbon Nanotubes being developed by Motorola researchers as we speak.

Gains can come from incorporating nanotechnology into existing products, resulting in new and improved versions of these products. Just imagine: faster computers, lighter materials for aircraft, less invasive ways to treat cancer, and more efficient ways to store and transport electricity.

Life-changing dreams are becoming reality in our nation's nanotechnology labs. We must press forward in a coordinated, collaborative fashion between Federal and State governments, businesses in the private sector, and our academic institutions. Simply put, we must go full speed ahead on the Nanotechnology Express Lane to boost our economy and our citizens' quality of life.

*******************

Article 70

The ARO specifically funds Army research in over 200 academic institutions across the Country. It administers and manages the Army SBIR and STTR programs. And it assesses the scientific opportunities to achieve the Army's long-range technology vision.

Specifically, it focuses over $350 million annually on research in support of Army transformational technologies. And this research support has paid huge dividends. R.E. Smalley, who is the discoverer or inventor of the Buckminster Fuller, which is a large-scale molecule, which is the beginning of nanotechnology, for which he was awarded the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, credits ARO's basic research technology capacity with spawning his discovery. And that is just one example of critical technologies that have been developed using ARO's capacity.

In fact, ARO has provided critical funding and support for 15 Nobel Laureates, beginning with the laser of Charles Townes in 1964, and the latest with the recent three physicists who won the 2001 Nobel Prize.


*******************

Article 71

Two years ago we delivered the site master plan. It recommends consolidating the Army's research prototyping and manufacturing facilities and will convey the site to a new owner and develop the surrounding campus with the advance technology companies. General Paul Kern while he was commander of the Army Materiel Command and Major General Ross Thompson while Commander Kaycon (ph) had key roles in shaping the master plan. General Kern met with us three times. General Thompson drove the entire effort. Both specifically recommended conveying the real estate and eliminating the nonmission distractions and costs associated with being a landlord. The net result provides the Army with combined manufacturing and R&D center designed to its core mission and surrounded by enhanced private technology companies to enhance DOD capacities as well as defray costs. It's our vision at the site to deploy more than 2,000 professionals by 2010. Under New York State's leadership, more than $4 billion is being invested within 10 miles of the arsenal in new nanotechnology, semiconductor, biotech and energetics R & D facilities. That has already brought new tenants to the arsenal site. Companies design and build at nanotech labs, produce nanomaterials for research and supply the semiconductors. We've just begun construction of a new defense and security innovation center that has its first seven tenants signed up ready to move there.

*******************

Article 72

MR. GAETANO: Good afternoon. Our corporation was formed at the request ff the arsenal labs, at a time when the site had lost about two thirds of work load and relevant people. Our idea is simple, demonstrate to the Army that we can improve the site and lower the Army's costs by developing space. By the end of this year, we will have brought more than $20 million in new private and public investment to the site and this fall will add -- nearly all of them defense contractors and advanced technology firms.

Two years ago we delivered the site master plan. It recommends consolidating the Army's research prototyping and manufacturing facilities and will convey the site to a new owner and develop the surrounding campus with the advance technology companies. General Paul Kern while he was commander of the Army Materiel Command and Major General Ross Thompson while Commander Kaycon (ph) had key roles in shaping the master plan. General Kern met with us three times. General Thompson drove the entire effort. Both specifically recommended conveying the real estate and eliminating the nonmission distractions and costs associated with being a landlord. The net result provides the Army with combined manufacturing and R&D center designed to its core mission and surrounded by enhanced private technology companies to enhance DOD capacities as well as defray costs. It's our vision at the site to deploy more than 2,000 professionals by 2010. Under New York State's leadership, more than $4 billion is being invested within 10 miles of the arsenal in new nanotechnology, semiconductor, biotech and energetics R & D facilities. That has already brought new tenants to the arsenal site. Companies design and build at nanotech labs, produce nanomaterials for research and supply the semiconductors. We've just begun construction of a new defense and security innovation center that has its first seven tenants signed up ready to move there.


*******************

Article 73

I can't think, Mr. Chairman, beyond the issue of healthcare of a more ominous issue for my state of Michigan and so many of our states and our economies than this whole question of illegal trading practices, particularly with China. You know, in Michigan we are experts at a lot of things. We make things and we grow things and we do it very well.

Whether it's cars or office furniture or apples or cherries, we lead the way in innovation and efficiency and these jobs are the lifeblood of our communities. Even today Michigan forges ahead as the forerunner of micro and nanotechnology development.

But on the other hand we have one of the highest unemployment rates in the United States right now. Unfortunately Michigan has added 9,600 people to our unemployment rolls as there have been jobs added across the country. Our current economy is moving through a great period of uncertainty and it'd be easy to say that this is just a bad business cycle, a business cycle that will eventually correct itself, but unfortunately I believe that overlooks what is fundamentally happening as we are now in a global economy and having to address the issues of the rules and how we're going to relate and do business with other countries around the world.

*******************

Article 74

In Michigan, we are experts in a lot of things. We make things and we grow things. And we do it very well, whether it's cars or office furniture or apples or cherries, we lead the way in innovation and efficiency. And these jobs are the lifeblood of our communities.

Even today, Michigan forges ahead as the forerunner of micro- and nanotechnology development.

But on the other hand, we have one of the highest unemployment rates in the United States right now. Unfortunately, Michigan has added 9,600 people to our unemployment rolls, as there have been jobs added across the country.


*******************

Article 75

Cancer biobank. The Committee believes that the cancer biobank, because it will centralize and standardize molecular annotation of tissues, has the potential to greatly accelerate the understanding of cancer and the discovery and development of new biomarkers, new diagnostics and new therapeutic approaches. As it is established by NCI, the Committee believes that it will be most efficient to utilize existing technologies such as high-density microarrays, given the long time frame for the development of new technologies.

Advanced technologies. The Committee commends NCI for its goal of eliminating the suffering and death caused by cancer by the year 2015. The Committee encourages NCI to pursue the use of advanced technologies such as nanotechnology, proteomics, and imaging, to rapidly translate basic research discoveries into targeted interventions to ultimately achieve the 2015 goal.

Informatics grid. The Committee is pleased with NCI's development of the cancer Biomedical Informatics Grid (caBIG) as a network to facilitate the integration of diverse data types and the sharing of interoperable analytic tools. NCI is encouraged to work with the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology to use CaBIG as a prototype for an interoperable clinical data network.

*******************

Article 76

Currently, there is no way to measure ongoing beta cell destruction to quantitatively monitor type 1 diabetes disease progression. In research toward overcoming this major research and clinical barrier, NIH-supported scientists discovered a new, non-invasive imaging technology that enabled them to monitor disease progression due to inflammation in a mouse model. The technology uses a vascular probe containing magnetic nanoparticles that can be detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Vascular probes have already been successfully used in humans to detect prostate cancer metastases; therefore, this technology has high potential of being translated to the clinic for type 1 diabetes to detect the inflammation caused when the immune system attacks the islet cells. Importantly, if successfully applied to type 1 diabetes, this technology can facilitate clinical trials of new therapeutic agents.

*******************

Article 77

PEARCE: Well, I understand, but if we spent the money, and we didn't get -- I just can't envision that it would be as expensive to do that here as it is there. And if there are problems getting it in, I can understand. But if we go ahead and spend the money and we don't succeed, I don't understand that.

Recently, the vice president of Los Alamos Labs was quoted as saying that the future of Los Alamos Labs is not nuclear detection and security but instead nanotechnology. Do you agree or disagree with his statement?

WAGNER: I'm not sure I know -- I wasn't aware of that statement, but I would disagree. I think it's both radiation detection, nanotechnology, and a lot of other technologies that are important for national security.

PEARCE: Why do you think that he made those comments? It makes it very difficult for us to...

*******************

Article 78

PEARCE: Well, I understand, but if we spent the money, and we didn't get -- I just can't envision that it would be as expensive to do that here as it is there. And if there are problems getting it in, I can understand. But if we go ahead and spend the money and we don't succeed, I don't understand that.

Recently, the vice president of Los Alamos Labs was quoted as saying that the future of Los Alamos Labs is not nuclear detection and security but instead nanotechnology. Do you agree or disagree with his statement?

WAGNER: I'm not sure I know -- I wasn't aware of that statement, but I would disagree. I think it's both radiation detection, nanotechnology, and a lot of other technologies that are important for national security.

*******************

Article 79

Finally, the Pentagon has recommended moving the unmanned ground vehicle system's joint project office from the Army Aviation and Missile Command in Huntsville, Alabama to Michigan. There are compelling reasons to do so. There are advanced technology efforts already going on in Michigan. Both commercial and university are working with TARDEC to interview -- integrate the new technology such as artificial intelligence, sensors, based on nanotechnology, advanced computer vision systems, into robotic vehicles. All of the department's science and technology developmental -- development objectives in ground vehicles and robotic technologies, all of those development objectives are already led by TARDEC and most of the agencies that the joint project office at Huntsville reports to and collaborates with are located in southeastern Michigan. Moving that ground vehicle robotics mission to the Detroit arsenal just makes common sense.

*******************

Article 80

The Detroit Arsenal took the Army's Stryker Combat Vehicle from concept to production in less than two years. It developed new slat armor for the Stryker in a matter of weeks to meet the needs of Operation Iraqi Freedom. It deployed new Crew Protection Armor Kits for the M939 vehicle fleet just eight months after the concept originated. The Arsenal responds to call from the field in Iraq and Afghanistan on a daily basis. The harsh operational conditions in both locations have demanded that Arsenal engineers find ways to push the Army's ground vehicle fleet to the next level.

Today, southeastern Michigan is helping to develop the Army of the future. The engineers at TARDEC and the National Automotive Center are improving the Army's ground vehicle fleet by leveraging the research already completed by the auto industry. They are reducing the fuel consumption of the Army's ground vehicles. They are exploring ways to create a mobile electrical grid. They are developing the use of artificial intelligence and nanotechnology in the next generation of military vehicles. And they are moving forward with the advanced development and deployment of a generation of vehicles powered by hybrid electric engines and fuel cells.

With its BRAC recommendations, the Department of Defense has recognized that greater efficiency and innovation will be possible through a greater concentration or clustering of related functions at the Detroit Arsenal. This "center of excellence" will take on additional tasks that are closely related to the Arsenal's core mission of ground vehicle development and acquisition.

+++++++++++++++++++

Finally, the Pentagon has recommended moving the Unmanned Ground Vehicles/Systems Joint Project Office from the Army Aviation and Missile Command in Huntsville, Alabama to Michigan, and there are compelling reasons to do so. Advanced technology small businesses and university researchers in Southeastern Michigan are already working with TARDEC to integrate new technologies such as artificial intelligence, sensors based on nanotechnology, and advanced computer vision systems into robotic vehicles. All of the DOD's science and technology development objectives in ground vehicles and robotic technologies are already led by TARDEC. And most of the agencies that the Joint Project Office at Huntsville reports to and collaborates with are located in southeastern Michigan. Moving this ground vehicle robotics mission to the Detroit Arsenal is common sense.


*******************

Article 81

$1,100,000 for the Ohio Distributed Hydrogen Project (Hydrogen);

$3,000,000 for the hydrogen fuel cell project for the Regional Transportation Commission of Washoe County, NV (Hydrogen);

$500,000 for the production of Hydrogen at the Nanotechnology Center of Excellence University of Arkansas, Little Rock (Hydrogen);

$4,000,000 for the UNLV Research Foundation for the renewable hydrogen refueling station system, including development of high pressure electrolysis using photovoltaics (Hydrogen);

+++++++++++++++++++

The Committee is supportive of the Department's effort to move ahead with a request for proposal for the first of four GTL facilities. The Committee is concerned that under the current budget and timetable, it is unlikely the Office of Science will be able to successfully prepare timely procurements for the three remaining facilities unless changes are made to the program. The Committee recommends the Department apply the same model as was used for the competition of the five nanotechnology centers. The Department was able to complete the five regional centers for a total cost of $301,000,000. Using the nanotechnology centers as the model, the Committee directs the Office of Science to accelerate the deployment of these world class genomic facilities.

Each of the four proposed facilities already identified by the Office of Science will support research and development to understand and develop solutions related to bioenergy and biobased products. However, due to the nature of the research there is a need for all four facilities to be deployed in order to meet the separate scientific challenges of molecular characterization, analysis of microbial response, and developing a better understanding of biological systems. The Committee has provided $40,000,000 to accelerate the Genomics: GTL program. Within the funds provided $20,000,000 shall be used to support research and development to support the GTL program and $20,000,000 to conduct preliminary engineering and design for the remaining 3 facilities in the Genomes To Life program.

Molecular Medicine. The Committee continues to support research that brings together PET imaging, systems biology and nanotechnology to develop new molecular imaging probes. These probes should provide a biological diagnosis of disease that is informative of the molecular basis of disease and specific for guiding the development of new molecular therapies.


*******************

Article 82

Prior to joining the Bush administration, Bill was the "advanced" at DARPA -- Defense Advanced Research Project Agency, DARPA, which obviously is very well known for its contributions to the defense and technology community including the invention of the Internet. At DARPA Dr. Jeffrey served as the deputy director for the Advanced Technology Office and chief scientist for the Tactical Technology Office. During his tenure there he developed research programs of communications, computer network security, novel (ph) sensor development, and space operations.

And besides being a fellow Virginian, Bill and I also do share a commitment to research and advancement in physical sciences such as nanotechnology. And I'm confident, Mr. Chairman, with your examination of Dr. Jeffrey's record, he's going to serve the president and most importantly the American people very well as director of NIST and I thank you for accommodating this hearing today so that we can move forward with this outstanding nominee.

SEN. STEVENS: Thank you very much, Senator Allen.


*******************

Article 83


I come before this committee during a transformational moment in history. A time when democracy is taking hold around the world and when there is great shift in our economy and in economies abroad.

Pursuit of liberty and new opportunities was a motivating force in bringing our Founding Fathers to this great land, and it is this freedom that has become the foundation for the entrepreneurial spirit embedded in the hearts and minds of the American people. From the first electric light to the first flight to nanotechnology, the entrepreneurial spirit that exists today has created a dynamic and vibrant community of enterprises second to none. Government's role is to create an environment where entrepreneurs and risk takers can realize their dreams.

Giants like Ford and Microsoft were not so long ago small businesses striving to realize the dreams of Henry Ford and Bill Gates. Today, small businesses create 70 percent of new American jobs, employ the majority of American workers, and are responsible for the majority of our nation's economic output. Small business owners are economic patriots taking risks and pursuing dreams. A vibrant small business sector is necessary for the economic health of our country.


*******************

Article 84

During his tenure there, he developed research programs in communications, computer network security, novel sensor development and space operations.

And, besides being a fellow Virginian, Bill and I also do share a commitment to research and advancement in physical sciences such as nanotechnology.

And I'm confident, Mr. Chairman, with your examination of Dr. Jeffrey's record, he's going to serve the president and, most importantly, the American people, very well as director of NIST.


*******************

Article 85

However, in a world in which science develops and renews itself at a dizzying pace, we must not rest on the laurels of yesterday's accomplishments - nor even those of today. I am certain that you do not do so, and continue your efforts. Therefore, in order to preserve its national strength, Israel must continue nurturing its scientific might.

Israel must serve as a magnet for scientists - certainly Jewish scientists - from around the world. It must be a melting pot of breakthrough ideas and the birthplace of innovative technologies. It must continue investing in scientific infrastructures which will allow us to add scientific accomplishments in the future. In the next decade, Israel must establish its position as one of the leading countries in the field of nanotechnology and biotechnology, improve the national ability in the various engineering fields and develop fields of research vital to the future of Israel and the future of the planet - such as environmental science, planetary science, health and space.

I view it as a national duty to invest not only in research and academic institutes, but also in strengthening the connection between science and the community. It is our duty to promote science and technology education among the broadest possible public, primarily in peripheral areas and in population sectors in which access to science is unnatural and not self-evident - in order to bring youth and adults closer together as one, in the world of science.

*******************

Article 86

The Committee recommendation includes $390,244,000 and 1,943 positions to support the full base operating costs of the core NIST programs. The recommendation does not include a requested adjustment to base funding of $5,128,000 to restore fiscal year 2005 rescissions. In addition, the Committee recommendation includes a programmatic increase totaling $7,500,000 under this account for advances in nanomanufacturing and nanometrology. Specifically, the program increase will enable NIST to establish the National Nanomanufacturing and Nanometrology Facility (N3F) at which government and industry can pursue collaborative nanotechnology efforts. The Committee expects this funding to result in the creation of a measurement infrastructure that will enable United States industries to better compete by promoting innovations in nanotechnology.

The Committee expects NIST to continue to prioritize funding for programs associated with standards and guidelines relating to the national security of the United States, including efforts relating to biometric and cyber security and programs relating to improvements to the nation's manufacturing and services sectors. The recommendation also continues funding for a telework project and a critical infrastructure program, at the same funding levels as in fiscal year 2005. The Committee encourages NIST to allocate funding available under this account to carry out responsibilities under the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program (Public Law 108-360). Finally, the Committee continues to support efforts to ensure that United States business interests are represented in international standards negotiations, and expects that NIST will collaborate with the Office of the United States Trade Representative and the Department of State on innovative ways to reduce trade barriers to United States exports by ensuring that United States standards are adopted in international negotiations.


*******************

Article 87

So that's the normal differences I suppose one would have between an administration and a legislative branch. But there are those of us who think that that is an important aspect for the future.

The other is nanotechnology. Senator Wyden, who was once a member of this committee, and I have moved forward, and the president signed the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act. It is the largest increase -- and I want to commend you all for following along with it -- largest increase in basic scientific research since the space program. 

And the nanotechnology area is a very multifaceted one. It will affect life sciences, materials engineering, microelectronics obviously. And it is important that this country stay in the lead in there.

And I want to commend the administration for, in a very tight and tough budget, making nanotechnology, which will affect manufacturing, particularly in the materials engineering, but everything, that nanotechnology will affect everything we use, whether it's a vehicle, or whether it's especially advancements in some of the biotechnology areas.

So I want to commend you all there, and where you can make sure that where we're investing in research and development in coordination with the universities and the private sector, that we look at the competitiveness of this country, but also, in comparison to what other countries are doing, whether it's in aeronautics, or whether that's in nanotechnology.

MR. FRINK: Thank you, Senator. I'm a little over eight months in this new position and I have to say, I'm still on the learning curve. One of the benefits I will have to help my education process will be the fact that I'm going in a couple of weeks to the Paris Air Show. It happens every two years. And I will be interacting with all the leading individuals that drive aerospace and speak at the area you were just talking about right now.

*******************

Article 88

-- In FY 2006, the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) program is budgeted for $2.2 billion, including research directly related to broadband technology.

-- Since 2001, funding for nanotechnology R&D under the President's National Nanotechnology Initiative has more than doubled to $1.1 billion. These investments are a reflection of the importance that President Bush assigns to science and technology to enhance U.S. competitiveness and our ability to solve challenges we face in health, defense, energy, and the environment.

Even in an environment of tight budgets, President Bush recognizes that one of the best tools we have for ensuring that the United States remains the world's innovation headquarters is to lead the world in cutting-edge fundamental research that industry can apply to its processes.


*******************

Article 89

Even as manufacturing machines become smaller, so will the scale on which manufacturing takes place. Already the United States has seen a significant drop in machine tool production, which paralleled a significant decline in R&D spending in this area, as attention has shifted to microscale tools and machining. Nano- manufacturing is the place where nanotechnology will transform from an exotic research field to something that reaches out to touch all human civilization. Nano-manufacturing addresses not only work on the nano-scale, which is one-billionth of a meter, but also the engineering of new materials at the atomic and molecular level that have novel, unique, and improved physical, chemical, and biological properties. Nanoscale engineering can greatly expand the range of performance of materials and chemicals, as well as creating microscopic machines and systems.

Nano-manufacturing has the potential to impact virtually every human-made object, from automobiles to electronics, from advanced medicine to energy production. Three specific areas where we are working at Georgia Tech are nano-computers that utilize nanotubes as interconnections instead of transistors; disease diagnosis and controlled drug delivery; and optoelectronic materials. But successful implementation of nano-manufacturing will require standard measurements at the atomic level, special manufacturing environments, and micro-scale technologies and quality control mechanisms. It will also require the involvement of experts in a much wider range of disciplines than traditional manufacturing- including electrical engineers, physicists, chemists, biologists, and biomedical engineers.

*******************

Article 90

The National Science Foundation Research Portfolio: CBRNE

As a first example, the OSTP report identifies Radiological and Nuclear Countermeasures as a key component to countering the threat of weapons proliferation, and the 2002 National Strategy for Homeland Security states: "Our highest scientific priority must be preventing terrorist use of nuclear weapons." A critical component capability to defend against nuclear proliferation and inhibit border penetration by a nuclear or radiological weapon is the ability to detect the presence of illicit fissile material. To detect such contraband, new sentinel systems and detectors enabled by critical advances in material sciences must be fielded at home and abroad. It is widely believed among the scientific community that nanotechnology will lead the way to the advanced capability in material sciences required to enable these systems. As the lead agency of the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI), NSF directed the 2004 restructuring of the NNI in part to accelerate the realization of new nano-structured materials and therefore hasten developments to enhance our ability to detect Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Explosive (CBRNE) materials.

The OSTP report also identifies early detection of Biological and Chemical Threat Agents as a critical capability required to enhance our nation's homeland security. The early detection of Biological and Chemical Threats, like the ability to detect fissile material, requires advanced knowledge of material science and sensor engineering. NSF supports both of these activities within and beyond the NNI.

*******************

Article 91

Collection management is an issue where CIA again has a major contribution to help the intelligence community develop systems where new policymakers can come into this town and figure out how you avail yourself of $40 billion worth of assets to help you do your job. It is still a vitally confusing and inefficient process.

The last thing I would say is that in the science and technology area, I think if I were Porter Goss I would be making the point very strongly that the intelligence committee is woefully behind in its understanding not just frankly of existing technology, but some of the newer technologies with regard to the biotech revolution, and the revolution in material sciences. Even the IT revolution, nanotechnology, and all those areas.

I think there is a real need for almost an historic new relationship with the scientific community. And I think CIA is a center for all sorts of analytic capability. And we ought to be pushing that.

*******************

Article 92

The last thing I would say is that, in the science and technology area, I think if I were Porter Goss, I would be making the point very strongly that the intelligence community I think is woefully behind in its understanding, not just, frankly, of existing technology, but particularly the newer technologies with regard to the biotech revolution and revolution in material sciences.

Even the IT revolution, nanotechnology and all those -- I think there's a real need for almost a historic new relationship with the scientific community, and I think CIA, as a center of all-source analytical capability ought to be pushing that.

GORELICK: Let me stop you right there because, before I...

*******************

Article 93

-- 1969-1990s - Government investments create the forerunners of the Internet (Arpanet) and build the Global Positioning System

-- Today: Current investments in promising research and technologies are found in genomic and biomedical research, as well as advanced computing and new materials, (e.g., the government's nanotechnology initiatives). The Global Competition in Innovation

The technologies enabled by ATP investments are particularly relevant in the new international competitive environment that the United States faces today. The increasing offshore movement of R&D, software development, and manufacturing poses a profound challenge to U.S. technical preeminence, and therefore on military preeminence. Private R&D by U.S. firms is increasingly spent in countries like China and India, where they are conducted increasingly by non-captive, independent organizations. Outsourced R&D is also moving up from lower-end research to the operation of major branch offices integrated into the worldwide operations of U.S. multinationals. This represents a new competitive paradigm for the United States and one for which we need an effective policy response. The challenges do not stop with R&D. Most other nations have created new, well funded programs to develop new technologies and new industries for their national economies. This is a global phenomenon. China is the most striking example. It has a broad array of programs designed to develop new technologies and to attract and grow leading industries such as semiconductors. While Chinese efforts are massive, they are by no means unique. For example, Finland, a country of five million, has a program similar to ATP, called Tekes; it is funded at $540 million. Belgium, a nation of ten million, has a consortium for microelectronics research called IMEC that is budgeted at $157 million. The EU is spending $22 billion in its Framework Programme of applied research, and there are proposals to double it. Taiwan has a superb series of programs at ITRI, funded at over $500 million. Other nations in Europe and Asia similarly have well-funded technology programs. Cooperative technology programs, like ATP and SBIR, have emerged as key elements in national competition for the high-technology industries of the future.

*******************

Article 94

Section 6: Scientific, technical, and research services

Authorizes appropriations for the laboratory accounts at NIST at $426.2 million in FY 2006, $447.5 million in FY 2007, and $457.0 million in FY 2008. The authorization for FY 2006 is divided as follows: $50.8 million for Electronics and Electrical Engineering; $28.0 million for Manufacturing Engineering; $52.4 million for Chemical Science and Technology; $46.7 million for Physics; $33.5 million for Material Science and Engineering; $24.3 million for Building and Fire Research; $68.4 million for Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, $20.1 million for Technical Assistance, $48.3 million for Research Support Activities, $29.3 million for the NIST Center for Neutron Research, and $18.5 for the National Nanotechnology and Nanometrology Facility.

Authorizes appropriations for the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award at $5.6 million in FY 2006, $5.7 million in FY 2007, and $5.9 million in FY 2008.

*******************

Article 95

Miraculous new medicines -- simple pills -- extend and improve lives not just for months or years, but decades.

Researchers routinely discover cures for diseases that many thought would plague humanity forever.

The biotechnology and nanotechnology revolutions hold immense potential to prevent, treat, cure illnesses.

On the other hand, great challenges await you as well.

Health care costs continue to spiral out of control for millions of American families. Tens of millions lack insurance.

*******************

Article 96

MR. SEGA: I would like to get back to you on the details of where the Air Force is; but the Picatinny arsenal will be -- if the recommendations are approved would be a major center for small arms, in particular the working the large caliber; but we also have work in Crane and other places that will continue to work in the area of guns and ammunition.

However, we're also looking at, in a broader context, at the chemistry and the explosives that are potentially coming forward. Nanotechnology and other things to potentially help drive that, but energetic material can be used as an explosive. Energetic material in another form potentially as a propellant and another form of potentially releasing energy for electrical power. And so we've also tried to concentrate activity to improve our output in the area of understanding end products in the area of energetics that would be across service and application. 

ADM. GEHMAN: Good. These are areas that we'll have to look at in some more detail. As you can tell from my question, I want both more and less.

*******************

Article 97
The work in the large caliber is (inaudible), but we also have work at Crane and other places that will continue to work in the area of guns and ammunition.

However, we're also looking at it in a broader context of the chemistry and the explosives that are potentially coming forward, nanotechnology and other things will potentially help drive that, but an energetic materiel can be used as an explosive, energetic material in another form potentially as a propellant, and another form potentially releasing energy for electrical power.

So we've also tried to concentrate activity to improve our output in the area of understanding and products in the area of energetics that will be cross-service in application.

*******************

Article 98

BASIC ENERGY SCIENCES

The Committee recommendation for Basic Energy Sciences is $1,173,149,000, an increase of $27,132,000 over the budget request. For purposes of reprogramming during fiscal year 2006, the Department may allocate funding among all operating accounts within Basic Energy Sciences, consistent with the reprogramming guidelines outlined earlier in this report.

[A>RESEARCH.<A] The Committee recommendation includes $772,025,000 for materials sciences and engineering, and $223,051,000 for chemical sciences, geosciences, and energy biosciences. An additional $19,737,000 is provided to maintain operating time on the Basic Energy Sciences user facilities at fiscal year 2005 levels, and an additional $7,395,000 is provided to restore university grants for core research in the basic energy sciences. The Committee recommendation funds nanoscale science research and the science research portion of the hydrogen initiative at the requested levels. Also included within this account is $7,280,000 for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR), the same as the budget request.

[A>CONSTRUCTION.<A] The Committee recommendation includes $178,073,000 for Basic Energy Sciences construction projects, the same as the requested amount. The Committee recommendation provides the requested funding of: $41,744,000 for the Spallation Neutron Source (99-E-334) at Oak Ridge National Laboratory; $2,544,000 for Title I and Title II design work (03-SC-002) and $83,000,000 to initiate construction (05-R-320) for the Linac Coherent Light Source at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center; $36,553,000 for the Center for Functional Nanomaterials (05-R-321) at Brookhaven National Laboratory; $9,606,000 for the Molecular Foundry (04-R-313) at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory; and $4,626,000 for the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies (03-R-313) at Los Alamos and Sandia National Laboratories.

*******************

Article 99

Industrial preparedness The budget request included $18.2 million in PE 78011S, for industrial preparedness. The committee notes that the laser additive manufacturing process rapidly produced titanium wing pylons to replace aluminum parts, which experienced mechanical problems during sustained combat operations. The committee recommends an increase of $5.0 million in PE 78011S for application of the laser additive manufacturing process to repair parts and to produce new parts for other aerospace-grade components that face similar degradation. The current processes and materials used for production of these parts are time consuming, expensive, and require long-lead times, which may negatively impact readiness.

The committee further recommends an increase of $1.5 million in PE 78011S for research on improved manufacturing processes for defense-related technologies, including sensors, energy systems, and nanotechnology.

Special operations wireless management and control project

*******************

Article 100

XX. Minority View

H.R. 1215's main goal is to help promote and coordinate Federal research, development, demonstration, education, and technology transfer activities related to green chemistry. Along with my amendment to further encourage research institutions and private sector participation, I strongly support the work that is being done by Portland State University, Oregon's urban university in areas related to green chemistry, including but not limited to biocompatible nanomaterials and nanostructured materials for solar energy conversion, atmospheric gasses, and global atmospheric change. Portland State University's mission to address real community needs through research, education, and outreach programs make it an ideal laboratory and educational model where the innovations and discoveries resulting from work in green chemistry can be developed, disseminated, and incorporated into business and government operations. Additionally, PSU is in a unique position to help prepare the next generation of chemists, scientists, and environmental engineers, as well as provide new educational opportunities to those in need of upgrading their skills in order to make contributions in the workplace in this area. Industries and businesses that are developed in response to initiatives related to green chemistry are a key component of the Portland metropolitan region's and Oregon's economic recovery strategies and PSU is integral to recruiting, retaining, and expanding these business opportunities. These developments will be especially important to a state that has been hit hard by high levels of unemployment and changes in its economic base.

David Wu.


*******************

Article 101

Of the total funding S&T will provide to aviation security research activities in fiscal year 2006, the Committee recommends $15,000,000 to continue the Manhattan II program. The Committee understands that work is underway and advancing towards achieving the program's objectives to reduce false alarm rates, increase throughput, reduce manpower costs, enhance resolution and vastly improve efficiencies. Existing Manhattan II program awardees represent a wide range of technologies and capabilities. The Committee directs DHS to give priority to those awardees with projects that develop a comprehensive system with a high probability of success in achieving the goals of the program. Further, the Committee urges the Department to encourage awardees to team with each other to add viable technology components, to create synergies and to accelerate the delivery of a comprehensive, next-generation explosive detection system. ports The Committee is aware of the unique training challenges created by ports. Given the costs and logistics associated with live exercise disaster training, the Committee encourages Science and Technology, in conjunction with the Office of Domestic Preparednesss, to explore the use of high-fidelity reality-based synthetic environment technology for disaster management and training in the port environment. converging technologies The Committee recognizes that DHS has made efforts to automate detection, identification, and warning of Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and Explosive (CBRNE) incidents. As these systems mature, they will likely be integrated with other tools in development, such as geospatial technologies that will indicate where an event is relative to response resources, how that event will be affected by the current weather, and other real time parameters that could affect response to a terrorist threat. As with other technology development activities, the Committee encourages S&T to work with other departments (e.g. DOD or DOE) that may have existing systems or relatively mature prototype systems that detect, integrate, and disseminate such information. document security The S&T Directorate is encouraged to work with the United States Secret Service's Forensic Services Division (FSD) in the research and development of standardized security features that can be embedded in paper documents such as birth certificates. Given FSD's contributions to the implementation of security features to prevent counterfeiting and the Secret Service's expertise in credentialing, the Committee believes the agency can lend considerable support to S&T's efforts in the improvement of applied paper document security research. nanotechnology

The Committee believes that nanotechnology is a promising technology that could contribute significantly in the defense against terrorism. The Committee encourages S&T to pursue research in nanotechnologies that may aid in the detection of biological, chemical, radiological, and explosive agents.

*******************

Article 102

Without a climate or the conditions present that foster breakthrough research and technologies, neither the European Union nor the United States would be able to compete so effectively in the global economy. To ensure that U.S. and European companies are at the forefront of innovation and cutting edge technologies, both the U.S. government and European Commission must work together on how to create a fair and free regulatory environment for the technology community to continue to compete, succeed and innovate.

For example, in nanotechnology, that's one of the areas where I believe government must tread carefully. I've made, along with a partner of mine, Ron Wyden, nanotechnology one of our priorities, and I want to make sure the United States is in the lead of nanotechnology. I recognize also that the Europeans are making a concerted effort in nanotechnology, as are Asian countries as well.

We held the first hearing on nanotechnology, Ron Wyden and myself, on this emerging science which I think is going to forever change the way we approach scientific and engineering challenges. We created the first bipartisan, bicameral Congressional nanotechnology caucus, we offered the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, which authorized appropriations for long term investment in the multifaceted fields of nanotechnology.

Such as the federal government's private businesses, I know we have a witness from Hewlett-Packard who's very strong in nanotechnology, as are other companies as well as colleges and universities. Now, this field of science, nanotechnology, is quickly transforming almost every aspect of our world and is already significantly improving our quality of life.

That's why it's important that we have cooperation with our international partners in this field as it continues to develop. It is my hope that the United States and European regulators can work cooperatively to provide the needed safeguards and parameters of nanotechnology research without burdening scientists with needless bureaucratic constraints, nor limiting innovation.

In copyright areas we need to be working with our European friends to make sure traditional safeguards are still relevant to new products and technologies. The emergence of multimedia products has brought into question the role of Europe's so-called collection societies. These powerful groups are authorized by law in most European countries to assign a tax or levy to equipment that can be used to copy commercial products like compact discs or movies. 

*******************

Article 103

Thank you, Senator Allen and Committee members and staff, for the opportunity to address Nanotechnology and Regulatory Issues from the standpoints of US and European firms. I am Dr. Frederick C. Klaessig, Technology Director for the Aerosil & Silanes Business Unit of Degussa Corporation. I am here representing Degussa plus several US and European member firms of the American Chemistry Council (ACC) that are actively involved with nanotechnology issues. Some of these firms are also active in the ACC's European and German counterparts, CEFIC and VCI, respectively.

If I am effective in my testimony today, I will be leaving you with three concepts:

1. The existing regulatory frameworks in Europe and the U.S. are robust enough to evaluate newer nanomaterials if on-going scientific advances are taken into consideration;.. 

2. Congressional support would be most effective in encouraging global coordination and harmonization of regulatory activities, so that newer materials do not face a patchwork of regulations; and,

3. Congressional support is also crucial in encouraging federal agencies to increase funds for environmental, health and safety (EHS) research.

Degussa Corporation is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Degussa AG, the third largest German chemical firm based in Duesseldorf, Germany. Degussa AG's roots go back to the mid-nineteenth century and we are presently the world's largest specialty chemical firm with revenues of 13 billion, employing 45,000 people globally. In the United States, Degussa employs 6,000 workers at over 60 manufacturing sites, with major facilities in Alabama, Virginia, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Georgia, and Texas.

Nanotechnology is regarded as one of the key technologies of the 21st century. Degussa regards this new technology as an opportunity to help develop new products and efficient scientific and technological solutions, and so make essential contributions towards environmental protection, health, and product quality. The company's responsible approach to nanotechnology is described in the policies recently approved by Degussa's Management Board; according to these policies, Degussa produces and markets nanomaterials only if, according to the latest available research, they can be manufactured and applied in a safe and environmentally compatible manner.

Degussa specializes in manufacturing fine scale powders. During these manufacturing processes, intermediates form that are nanoscale in part, which are smaller than one ten-thousandth of a millimeter and which immediately coalesce into much larger, micron-sized agglomerates. For special applications, formulations such as dispersions are selectively manufactured that contain these nanomaterials. In the research, production, and application of nanomaterials, Degussa is guided by informed prudent practices and the findings of scientific studies on hazard and risk assessment. These findings determine the measures necessary to protect employees, customers, and consumers when manufacturing and using nanoscale materials. Degussa works closely with leading European and U.S. research institutes for this purpose. Moreover, Degussa explicitly supports the establishment of new research methods, specially tailored to the specific effects of nanoscale materials, which permit refinement of risk assessment.

Unlike other "new" technologies, there is a long history of nanomaterials being safely used in commerce when following good industrial hygiene practice. As a manufacturer for more than 60 years of products that have nano-scaled features, we are in a position to bring an historical perspective to the current R&D initiatives taking place in the U.S., Europe, and Japan. We have actively participated in the general trend of utilizing finer and finer materials (smaller and smaller features) and narrower and narrower particle size distributions, which taken together are termed the top down avenue to nanotechnology. The decades long trend to smaller particles has led to a dramatic improvement in physical properties in such applications as reinforcement of silicone rubber, paint rheology control, fillers in general, glossy inkjet paper coatings and chemical mechanical planarization of semiconductor wafers. From the broader historical perspective, we note the following tipping points when viewing the current nanotechnology initiative in the United States (expressed in the traditional stasis categories):

Comment on current situation

Fact Traditional concepts of surface and bulk chemistry are being confused when physical and life science disciplines participate in the dialog

Definition There are a multitude of definitions for materials that have been in commerce safely for decades, while there is a lack of definition for newer materials and novel functionality

Quality The safety of existing materials, as well as future innovative substances, is put into question when there are gaps in scientific knowledge and toxicity test methodology that are being actively pursued

Venue The science and uses of nanotechnology are global in nature, but the research initiatives and regulatory schemes are potentially regional

Overall The various branches of technology development are operating at different speeds, causing confusion regarding the science, safety, and utilization of nano-scaled materials

For those firms having existing nano-scaled products, like Degussa, there is a concern that new, naive definitions will undermine existing patents, trade secrets, and TSCA registrations. The same would be true for our customers who have relied on our technology in developing their own products. For those firms that are contemplating entering the field of nanomaterials with new "engineered" substances with novel functionality, there is uncertainty regarding evolving definitions that do not capture the essence of their innovative concepts in manufacturing, characterizing, and evaluating these materials. For some firms, especially those that are small, innovative and inexperienced, there is the greater likelihood that they are unaware of the regulatory issues they must address in order to achieve a finding of safety for their product(s). All categories of firms, no matter size or resources, will encounter the same regulatory issues during the commercialization process. However, it is not clear that regulatory agencies are viewing the development of nanotechnology with the same priority or coordinating with each other. Placing these concerns under the common heading of "regulatory risk", all categories of firms must now add an additional risk to the standard business risk of the marketplace.

Several member firms of the American Chemistry Council have established working groups with the purposes of coordinating a collective response to our concerns about both existing materials and those in the R&D pipeline.

It is our firm belief that the current regulatory frameworks in the U.S. and Europe are capable of addressing the development of new nanomaterials, if scientific results are taken into consideration as they arise. Certainly, emerging scientific results will need to be taken into consideration as they arise, but the regulatory framewoks are in place to deal with them. The firms participating in the ACC forums are committed to Responsible Care principles and are prepared to respond to new and on-going EHS studies. The same is true for industrial hygiene issues, where an industry consortium is already planning efficacy evaluations of face mask, gloves, and other materials when exposed to nanoparticles. Governmental initiatives in both the U.S. and Europe are to be congratulated in fostering the development of applications in nanotechnology. As society has experienced in other emerging fields, meshing science, technology, funding, and patents does not guarantee success in the global marketplace with new products. We (Degussa and the likeminded firms at ACC, CEFIC, etc.) are most concerned with EHS issues, and we would ask the Senator and his colleagues to consider this issue in their future deliberations.

All new substances require EPA review before being introduced to the commercial market, yet to date, the global initiatives for nanotechnology have not emphasized EHS in their priority programs. Generating the body of knowledge needed to make findings of safety, the process inherent to being TSCA listed, are considered to be the domain of the commercial firm and not of the academic laboratory. Yet, too, the new nanomaterials can exhibit unique properties in both their physical performance as well as in their toxicological, environmental attributes. The novel materials are challenging to the field of toxicology as they are unique in their performance. A gap is forming where we as a society are generating nanotechnology more rapidly than we are creating the tools to measure the EHS impact of this same technology. We understand that public confidence in both the safety of the novel products of nanotechnology and in the methods and processes used to assess them are essential; both must be vigorously pursued. Existing materials may point the way to both health concerns and the Product Stewardship practices needed to eliminate those concerns. The unknown, especially the unseen material with an uncertain toxicity, can lead to a sudden loss in public confidence about safety. Our concern, being global companies, regarding the developing gap between generating nanotechnology and evaluating its EHS attributes, is that it may lead the different regions of the world to have separate and restrictive EHS regulations. If a competitive race between regions in generating nanotechnology should lead to a commensurate race in regulating these same materials, then our common desire for benefiting from nanotechnology will be undermined.

It is our firm belief at Degussa that nanotechnology is a global opportunity to be based on a global reservoir of scientific facts. We would urge the Congress to encourage the U.S. agencies to work cooperatively with their European and Japanese counterparts. For example, we commend the Environmental Protection Agency's staff for their active involvement with the upcoming OECD meeting on 7 June. The public meetings the EPA plans in the U.S. will parallel the public meetings to be held by the OECD in 2006. Efforts such as these should be encouraged.

It would help the research innovation cycle greatly if the Congress would encourage the funding agencies involved with the NNI to redirect money from the fundamental research of nanomaterials to the fundamental research for potential toxicity of nanomaterials, as well as their relevant exposure scenarios. It is currently assumed that industry should be responsible for generating the database needed to gain a TSCA listing, but the newer nanomaterials pose a challenge to existing testing methodology. However, test methodologies, structure activity relationships, and analytical techniques are not standardized in this field, and federal funding here would guide the regulatory agencies and responsible firms towards proper testing and evaluation of new materials. Industry and the EPA will look for some guidance to federally funded academic studies, which is preferable to case-by-case studies protected by trade secret status.

Many States have nanotechnology initiatives, which is true in Europe as well. These efforts are closely tied to job creation and often use local university and college resources in these efforts. Successful, state-funded firms will encounter EHS hurdles when commercializing their products at the point of regulatory review at the EPA level or when exporting to Europe or Asia. In fact, there is a range of trade-related issues, such as customs duties, that are similar to EHS concerns and are susceptible to confusing, isolated interpretations when viewed on the global perspective. Again, global coordination of Federal agency activities and research funding of EHS-related evaluation techniques are areas where Congressional encouragement would be most helpful.


*******************

Article 104

Thank you, Senator Allen and Committee members, for this opportunity to discuss an important topic - nanotechnology in the context of US-European relations. I am Stephen Harper, Director of Environmental, Health and Safety Policy at Intel Corporation. I am here representing Intel as well as the European- American Business Council (EABC).

EABC is a trans-Atlantic, trans-sectoral alliance network of 43 US- and European-based global companies. EABC's mission is to enhance US and European economic competitiveness through government-to-government and government-to-industry policy collaboration. The EABC believes that smart trans-Atlantic regulatory alignment can truly add to productivity gains. Today I want to emphasize several key themes:

-- First, innovation in the semiconductor industry has been a principal driver of recent US gains in economic productivity and significant improvements in health care and other fields benefiting humanity. 

-- Second, looking into the not-too-distant future, continued progress in the semiconductor industry will depend on progress in the development of nanotechnology. Just as semiconductor technology is the competitive edge of the Information Age, so nanotechnology will be the competitive edge of semiconductor technology in the future.

-- Third, continued progress in the development of nanotechnology depends in significant measure on international cooperation in key areas of research and development. The opportunities and challenges simply are too great for one nation, or a national industry, to try to tackle them in isolation.

-- Fourth, the evolution of an appropriate environmental, health, and safety (EHS) regulatory framework for addressing potential nanotechnology risks will be critical to the ultimate public acceptance of this new technology. International cooperation, especially between the US and Europe, will be key here as well.

-- The US government, focused through the National Nanotechnology Initiative, can help ensure international cooperation regarding EHS regulation of nanotechnology.

Before I delve into each of these themes, let me first focus on Intel - who we are and why we care about nanotechnology.

Intel, as you know, is the largest and leading semiconductor company in the world. Founded in 1968, Intel today employs 87,000 employees worldwide, with 2004 revenue of approximately $34 billion. Although known primarily for our Pentium and Centrino products, Intel markets over 450 products and services.

Intel also is a global company, with 294 offices and facilities in 48 countries. Intel has a major manufacturing presence in the United States, with 49,000 USbased employees and major production facilities in Oregon, Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, Washington, and Massachusetts. We continue to have major research, design, and other facilities in California, in addition to our corporate headquarters. Importantly in the context of today's hearing, Intel also has a major investment in Europe. Leixlip, Ireland, in the suburbs of Dublin, is home to two Intel factories or "fabs," employing 3,300. In addition to Ireland, we have significant design and research facilities in the UK, Denmark, and Germany. Specifically focused on nanotechnology, we participate in the Irish Nanotechnology Research Center as well as a research center in Belgium. Reflecting our production, design, and research investments in the European Union, we also participate in a number of industry trade associations and coalitions, including the European-American Business Council. The important thing to stress is that our facilities in the US and Europe, and in Asia for that matter, are all part of an integrated enterprise. The success of each is important to the success of the overall company.

Intel's interest in nanotechnology is multi-faceted. In the immediate term, Intel today is creating devices that feature transistors that are smaller than 100 nanometers wide. These nano- sized features are why Intel's current Pentium 4 processors are packed with more than 100 million transistors and our Itanium 2 server processor family includes a recently-prototyped chip that includes more than 1.7 billion transistors, a product we expect to launch commercially early next year. In terms of dollar value of product, advanced semiconductors represent the biggest slice of the current nanotechnology marketplace. We refer to our current nanotechnology as "nano-electronics."

The width of our current transistors and circuits is so small they are difficult to fathom. The best way to appreciate their size is in relation to more familiar objects. Later this year, Intel will introduce chips that have 65 nanometer-sized transistors. The gates of the transistors - the switch that turns them on and off - measure only 35 nanometers across. At this size, approximately 100 of these transistor gates could fit inside the diameter of a human red blood cell. Another comparison: approximately 10 million of these transistors could fit in the area of the tip of a ball-point pen.

Looking ahead we believe that we can continue to evolve and improve current materials and technologies to drive transistor sizes down to approximately the 10 nanometer size range. For the foreseeable future, semiconductors will continue to rely on traditional silicon-based technology. But perhaps approaching 2020, we anticipate running up against the physical limitations of silicon-based approaches. At that point, chip manufacturing may rely on new nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes and nanowires to continue progress in accordance with Moore's Law.

The year 2020 sounds like a long time away. But because of the complexity of the technical work that must be done to invent and implement the nanomaterial future, Intel and the semiconductor industry have begun investing in significant research and development to bridge to the nanomaterial future. Much of this work takes place within the context of the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors (ITRS). The ITRS lays out the key scientific and environmental challenges that must be met in order to continue progress along the path predicted by Moore's Law. It is important to emphasize that the ITRS, and much of the current nanotechnology R&D being undertaken in the semiconductor industry, is viewed as "pre-competitive" - companies from across the industry, from around the world, are pursuing a common basic research agenda, working through cooperative institutions like Sematech and the Semiconductor Research Corporation. The economic promise and technical challenges of nanotechnology require effective international collaboration.

Within Europe, Intel has been active in the Belgium-based Interuniversity MicroElectronics Center (IMEC), the European Nanoelectronics Initiative Advisory Council (ENIAC), and other industry-government cooperative ventures. We will also play a major role in the upcoming First International Nanotechnology Conference on Communication and Cooperation, scheduled for early June in San Francisco.

I have referred several times to "Moore's Law." What is Moore's Law and why does it matter? Forty years ago, Gordon Moore, one of the founders of Intel, predicted in an industry magazine that the number of transistors in integrated circuits would double every year. Moore later updated his projection to a doubling every two years, accounting for the increased complexity of semiconductors. Moore's observation really focuses on two phenomena - increasing density of transistors on semiconductors and radically decreasing cost per transistor. It describes the phenomenon in our industry whereby we etch ever smaller-sized features in silicon. Moore's Law was a prediction based on an observation, not a true "law." But it has functioned as a law in the sense that it has driven the pace of change and innovation in our industry, as we seek to continue the trend of past advances.

So who cares? As described, Moore's Law perhaps is something interesting to semiconductor industry technologists only. But progress along the trajectory of Moore's Law has translated into cost decreases for a wide range of products that depend on semiconductors - computers, telecommunications equipment, automobiles, scientific equipment, and many other devices. Falling prices for information technology products have driven the rapid proliferation of information technology. The diffusion of information technology has been the biggest reason for the recent, historic acceleration of US economic productivity growth. And productivity growth is the secret to improving our standard of living. In the words of Harvard Economics Professor Dale W. Jorgenson, "A consensus has emerged that the development and deployment of information technology (IT) is the foundation of the American growth resurgence. The mantra of the 'new economy' - faster, better, cheaper - characterizes the speed of technological change and product improvement in semiconductors, the key enabling technology." (2005 Semiconductor Industry Association Annual Report) Pre-competitive R&D cooperation has been central to keeping up with Moore's Law in the past. We believe it will continue to be critical as we move further into the realm of nanomaterials. And this cooperation needs to be international in scope, combining the best research minds in the industry, and in government and university labs, wherever they are located. This is somewhat at odds with the spirit of numerous governmental reports and communications - from the US, Europe, and Japan - that portray nanotechnology as the next "space race," as the proverbial "goose" that will lay the future economic "golden egg." Clearly, governments in many geographies view nanotechnology as a foundation of future economic growth.

My message today is that what we need is a balance of competition and cooperation. And international cooperation is critical in areas such as semiconductors, where the challenges are great and the cost of meeting those challenges is excessive. International cooperation is also critical in the realm of the implications of nanotechnology - especially the environmental, health, and safety (EHS) implications of this new "magic." Research initiatives launched pursuant to the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) need to be undertaken in cognizance of and, where appropriate, in cooperation with parallel activities in Europe and elsewhere.

At this point I want to stress the value we place on the activities of the NNI. In a very short period of time, the NNI, with support from participating agencies and funding from the Congress, has developed a very robust program of activities. And we are confident that the ongoing National Academy of Sciences review, mandated by Congress, will confirm this and make suggestions for the continued success of the NNI. In the semiconductor industry, we are participating in a series of joint NNI/Semiconductor Research Cooperation (SRC) workgroups under the auspices of the NNI's Consultative Board on Advancing Nanotechnology (CBAN). These issues range from meeting priority technology challenges to identifying and addressing environmental, health, and safety (EHS) research needs related to semiconductor applications of nanotechnology. NNI funding related to semiconductor nanotechnology research goes to many universities in numerous states across the US.

The NNI/SRC focus on the EHS dimensions of nanotechnology is part of a broader NNI trend of focusing on the "implications" of nanotechnology, not just "applications." We support those activities; indeed, we believe that more attention and resources need to be devoted to identifying and reducing the EHS risks of nanotechnology.

Intel has a proud record of accomplishment in our own EHS programs and activities. Our guiding EHS management principles commit us to preventing all injuries in the workplace, being an EHS leader in our industry and our communities, and reducing the environmental "footprint" of our products, processes, and operations. But "talk is cheap": we have translated these principles into a world-class record of performance. Our worker safety record is among the best of any company in any industry. Across both safety and environmental realms, Intel has earned dozens of awards for leadership in the US, Israel, the Philippines, and many other geographies. Within the industry, Intel has been a leader in the development of the EHS element of the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors.

Intel's EHS management activities in the nanotechnology realm have two primary focal points. In the immediate term, we are committed to ensuring the safety of our own employees as they work with innovative nanomaterials in our research labs. Longer- term, we have an interest in the responsible development and deployment of nanotechnology, ensuring that attention is paid to the "implications" as well as the "applications." What we want to avoid is for the trajectory of nanotechnology to follow that of genetically-modified organisms (GMOs), the most recent "magic" technology. In the case of GMOs, in our view, deployment of applications outpaced attention to the environmental, health, and safety implications of the technology. Public concerns that arose because of this have significantly retarded the realization of GMO's great commercial potential. With this concern in mind, Intel has been an active participant in the CBAN NNI/SRC Workgroup 5 activities, focused on EHS research. Intel also has assumed a role in a nascent activity under the auspices of the International Standardization Organization (ISO) focused on developing international standards related to the EHS aspects of nanotech. We also are one of the founding supporters of the International Council on Nanotechnology (ICON), a multi-stakeholder initiative of Rice University's Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology (CBEN). ICON is focused on advancing and coordinating nanotechnology EHS research. In addition, we are engaged in formal "benchmarking" activities with other companies to identify "best known methods" in the measurement and safe handling of nanomaterials in the research laboratory environment.

As a result of our engagement in these nanotechnology EHS initiatives, we believe there are two broad categories of research needs. First, much more needs to be known about the toxicity of nanomaterials. Second, there is a need for the development of standardized metrology techniques and EHS controls for application in both the laboratory and production environments. These needs are not unique to the semiconductor industry - they are common to a broad range of industries with an interest in the responsible deployment of nanotechnology.

Finally, I want to focus on governmental regulation of the EHS aspects of nanotechnology. Drawing lessons once again from the precedent of GMOs, governmental regulation of nanotechnology may be essential to the long-term public acceptance of new technologies like nano. This probably is especially true in the European Union, where the "precautionary approach" increasingly defines the governmental, and societal, approach to new technologies.

Here in the US, the Environmental Protection Agency is in the early stages of wrestling with some difficult questions concerning the applicability to nanotechnology of their regulatory authority under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). We understand that the Agency intends to convene a public workshop on this issue later this year.

In the European Union, we anticipate that regulation of nanotechnology will proceed under the broad umbrella of the REACH Directive. REACH is a fundamental revision of the EU's approach to regulating new and existing chemicals. Because the REACH Directive is still in the legislative process, it is not entirely clear what the new chemical regulatory regime will look like, much less how it will address nanotechnology.

While the two governments - US and EU - are beginning to sort out how they want to regulate nanotechnology, there is a need for cooperation across the Atlantic. Because progress on the scientific aspects of nanotechnology - at least in the semiconductor industry - will depend in part on international cooperation, there is a parallel need for cooperation in assessing and addressing the EHS implications of nanotechnology. The emergence of significant differences in regulatory approaches across the Atlantic could undercut cooperation on the science.

Specifically what is called for is open cooperation and sharing in the generation of data concerning the risks as well as the benefits of nanotechnology. Sensible regulations need to be based on good science and accumulating data from credible scientific studies. We need an international research strategy focused on the potential EHS risks of nanotechnology, with broad sharing of research results and the coordination of future efforts. The US Government can provide a significant service in this regard. The NNI, working with CBEN, ICON, and others, should clearly identify all past, current, and proposed nanotechnology research focused on human health risks and safety issues. Overtures should be made to the Europeans and Japanese to encourage them to add to this database. A collective, international effort of this kind will help to identify key research gaps and spur the development of an international EHS research strategy for nanotechnology. Execution of this strategy will inform responsible regulation of nanotechnology and, in our view, increase the prospects of public acceptance and commercial realization of nanotechnology's great promise.

*******************

Article 105

Nanotechnology

Common technology policy interests and objectives are difficult enough to establish between global regions when technologies are well understood and their applications accepted. In many technical areas, however, we stand at the threshold. The possibilities are vast and the outcomes unknowable. Nanotechnology is one such area. Even as we struggle to understand the broad outlines of what this field entails, countries are rushing to claim leadership in nanotechnology expertise.

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) estimates that over 30 nations have funded nanotechnology research programs. The OECD goes on to report that between 1997 and 2000, nanotech research and development (R&D) funding jumped from approximately $114 million to over $210 million in the E.U., $102 million to $293 million in this country, and from $93.5 million to $189 million in Japan.

If we compare the relative positions of the U.S. and E.U. in nanotechnology with other regions of the world, the advantages of the West are enormous. We are the first movers in the marketplace. We are performing the bulk of the research. We have the history of productive collaboration between government agencies and research universities. We have the culture of risk capital and entrepreneur-driven innovation. We have the twin traditions of public domain knowledge and intellectual property protection. Nanotechnology is an interdisciplinary science, most prominently affecting industries like aerospace, biotechnology, defense, electronics, energy and other high tech fields. As home to many of the world-class corporations in these industries, the U.S. and E.U. have the critical mass of private sector firms with the ability and incentive to support both nanotechnology research and to provide investment capital.

What is critical, again, is collaboration, particularly among leading researchers in academic institutions and laboratories, without unjustified interference from wellintentioned but ultimately interfering public officials.

*******************

Article 106

As administrator and coordinator of the United States' private sector-led and public sectorsupported voluntary consensus standardization system, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) shares the concerns of industry and this Committee vis-a- vis our nation's ability to compete effectively in world economies. A key element of ANSI's mission is focused on enhancing the global competitiveness of U.S. business by facilitating voluntary consensus standards (VCS) and conformity assessment systems, and safeguarding their integrity.

In this testimony, ANSI will explain many of its relevant standardization activities related to China and the EU and will recommend actions that can be taken by Congress to assist in mitigating many of the concerns identified. ANSI will also call for Congressional endorsement of the United States Standards Strategy2 (USSS) as a framework that effectively addresses the cross-border trade of goods and services; key national priorities such as homeland security; emerging technologies - such as nanotechnology - and their significant related commercial and business applications; consumer health and safety, and more.

Mr. Joe Bhatia, who is appearing here today on behalf of Underwriters Laboratories, chairs the USSS project. Robert Noth, Donald Deutsch, and Dr. Hratch Semerjian and his staff at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) all provided invaluable input and leadership throughout the development process of the Strategy. All of us will be pleased to respond to your questions about it.

*******************

Article 107

What Can Be Done?

Advancing the standards and conformity assessment interests of US stakeholders will require a stronger public-private partnership. For its part, the private sector - working through the auspices of ANSI and with input from US government stakeholders - is making a concerted effort to develop a meaningful US Standards Strategy (USSS) that "can be used by all interested parties to further advance trade issues in the global marketplace, enhance consumer health and safety, meet stakeholder needs and, as appropriate, advance US viewpoints in the regional and international arena."6 As the ANSI testimony notes, a "key aspect of the Strategy is reference to the requirements of the WTO's Technical Barriers to Trade as related to standards practices." The following are some priority considerations that fall within the twelve broad USSS initiatives:

-- US stakeholders should take the lead in submitting standards development proposals and requesting recognition of US documents at the international level in such emerging national priority areas as homeland security and nanotechnology. Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) is another such area where the impact of standards on trade is potentially staggering.

-- Government and private sector stakeholders alike should work toward enhanced protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) of standards development organizations, especially in countries like China where general enforcement of IPR has been uneven.

*******************

Article 108

DR. NATHAN P. MYHRVOLD: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, both thank you for having me here and for turning your attention to a very important topic of patent reform. My perspectives today are going to be based a little bit about who I am. I started off as an academic physicist, I started my own company and became a start up entrepreneur in California in 1983. Microsoft acquired my company and so I became a corporate executive, Microsoft's chief technology officer for 14 years. Five years ago I left Microsoft and started Intellectual Ventures, dedicated to the idea of invention and helping inventors. Finally, I'm an inventor myself so I understand the patent office from that perspective.

Now invention is critical to America, I don't need to remind you of that. One point I think is very important, though, is that the small inventor is critical to America. 45 per cent of America's patent holders are classified as small entities by the patent office. That means they're individuals, they're universities or they're small businesses. This cuts across every field of technology, no matter how exotic, no matter how cutting edge. In fact, you look at semiconductors, look at nanotech, look at computers, you'll find in those areas that individuals and universities together often have more patents than the biggest companies in the world.

It's a diffuse group, it's also a vulnerable group, because they depend on patent law very critically, much more so than the big guys do. So as we approach patent reform, it's very important that we keep them in mind. An unintended consequence of shifting in one area can make the playing field not level for the little guy. I've studied the committee print, there's a lot that I would commend the committee on and I would agree with. Actually Chairman Smith summed up the whole series of things, I won't repeat them all. I also want to echo my colleague's remarks that when you add something like post grant opposition, I think it's a good move, you've got to make sure that it's funded and resourced.


*******************

Article 109

Patents: Protecting Inventions

The patent system is a fundamental foundation of America's innovation based economy. Like any other part of the free enterprise system, the patent system offers economic incentive by allowing private ownership. In a way, this is no different than real estate, or other private assets. Private ownership of valuable assets is the basis for the American economy.

The process of invention requires large amounts of the inventor's time, energy and money. In order to create incentive for that expenditure, the inventor gets ownership in the invention for a limited time, after which it passes into the public domain. This system has been a primary driver behind the tide of innovation that has kept America number one in the world for at least the last century. The system that encouraged and sustained great inventors like Thomas Edison, Alexander Graham Bell and the Wright brothers is a critical component of America's 21st Century goals to lead the world in computing, biotechnology, nanotechnology and dozens of other exciting fields.

Small Inventors: America's Economic Engine


*******************

Article 110

Because the claim that quality has deteriorated in a broad and systematic way has not been empirically tested, conclusions must remain tentative. But there are several reasons to suspect that more issued patents are substandard, particularly in technologies newly subject to patenting. One reason to believe that quality has suffered, even before taking examiner qualifications and experience into account, is that in recent years the number of patent examiners has not kept pace with the increase in workload represented by the escalating number and growing complexity of applications. Second, USPTO patent approval rates are higher than in some other major nations' patent offices. Third, changes in the treatment of genomic and business method applications, introduced as a result of criticisms of the quality of patents being issued, reduced or at least slowed down the number of patent grants in those fields. And fourth, there does appear to have been some dilution of the application of the nonobviousness standard in biotechnology and some limitations on its proper application to business methods patent applications. Although quality appears to be more problematic in rapidly moving areas of technology newly subject to patenting and perhaps is corrected over time, the cost of waiting for an evolutionary process to run its course may be too high when new technologies attract the level of investment exhibited by the Internet, biotechnology, and now nanotechnology.

What are the costs of uncertainty surrounding patent validity in areas of emerging technology? First, uncertainty may induce a considerable volume of costly litigation. Second, in the absence of litigation, the holders of dubious patents may be unjustly enriched, and the entry of competitive products and services that would enhance consumer welfare may be deterred. Third, uncertainty about what is patentable in an emerging technology may discourage investment in innovation and product development until the courts clarify the law, or inventors may choose to incur the cost of product development only to abandon the market years later when their technology is deemed to infringe. In sum, greater certainty about patent validity would benefit innovators, technological followers, and consumers alike.


*******************

Article 111

SOLAR ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES

The Solar Energy Technologies Program focuses research on advanced solar devices that can bring reliable and affordable solar energy technologies into the marketplace, helping our Nation meet electricity needs and reduc ing the stress on our critical electricity infrastructure. The Department's efforts are directed in the interrelated areas of photovoltaics, concentrating solar power (CSP), and solar heating and lighting. The Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Request for solar technology is $84.0 million, which is roughly equivalent to the Fiscal Year 2005 comparable appropriation of $85.1 million. The Department's photovoltaic research and development is focused on next- generation technologies such as thin- film photovoltaic cells and leap-frog technologies such as polymers and nanostructures. The Fiscal Year 2006 request of $75.0 million for photovoltaic energy systems includes $31.4 million for critical laboratory research, $28.6 million for advanced materials and devices, and $15.0 million for technology development efforts to improve reliability of the entire system. The Department has included $4.5 million in the Fiscal Year 2006 request to support the new Collaborative Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Initiative designed to strengthen through research and development the technological competitiveness of U.S. products in a rapidly growing world market.


*******************

Article 112

Thank you for the opportunity to testify today about the Office of Science's Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 budget request. I am deeply appreciative of your support for basic research, Madame Chairman, and the support we have received from the other Members of this Subcommittee. I am confident that our FY 2006 request represents a sound investment in our Nation's future. Through this budget we will position the Office of Science to be ready for the opportunities of the next decade. 

This budget, Madame Chairman, will enable thousands of researchers located across our Nation to work on some of the most pressing scientific challenges of our age. These researchers will demonstrate the scientific and technological feasibility of creating and controlling a sustained burning plasma to generate energy through participation in ITER (Latin for the way, ITER is an international fusion collaboration); use advanced computation and modeling tools to resolve complex scientific problems; restore U.S. leadership in neutron science with the start of operations at the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS); expand the frontier of nanotechnology through operation of Nanoscale Science Research Centers (NSRCs); pursue an understanding of how the universe began; contribute to our understanding of climate change including the potential of carbon sequestration; develop the knowledge that may enable us to harness microbes and microbial communities to improve energy production and environmental remediation; and contribute basic research that underpins the President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative.

The Office of Science requests $3,462,718,000 for the FY 2006 Science appropriation, a decrease of $136,828,000 from the FY 2005 appropriation, for investments in basic research that are critical to the success of Department of Energy (DOE) missions in national security and energy security; advancement of the frontiers of knowledge in the physical sciences and areas of biological, environmental, and computational sciences; and provision of world-class research facilities for the Nation's science enterprise.


*******************

Article 113

Like many small technology-based businesses, our company was founded by an inventor and patent holder. In our case, it was my wife, Julie. After earning a graduate degree from MIT, and with little or no business background, she decided to start her own company to further develop and capitalize on her skills, talents, inventions and discoveries. She thought it was useful to have a partner in this endeavor, and that's where I came in. As an inventor from childhood with some reasonable commercial successes, I had collected a considerable range of experience learning about the things one did and did not do to capitalize on one's creativity. 

Fifteen years later, we have three little inventors at home and a company with a staff of 20 innovators. We produce a number of commercially viable developments and patents in holography, optics, micro-electronics and nanotechnology. We recently launched an effort to develop innovations that may help win the war against terrorism, work supported with federal government contracts as well as private funds.

It is important to note that we believe that intellectual property in the long term will have a greater value than our tangible output will in the short term. Said a different way, the product of our minds probably has more value than the things we can make with our hands.


*******************

Article 114

Because the claim that quality has deteriorated in a broad and systematic way has not been empirically tested, conclusions must remain tentative. But there are several reasons to suspect that more issued patents are substandard, particularly in technologies newly subject to patenting. One reason to believe that quality has suffered, even before taking examiner qualifications and experience into account, is that in recent years the number of patent examiners has not kept pace with the increase in workload represented by the escalating number and growing complexity of applications. Second, patent approval rates are higher than in some other major nations' patent offices. Third, changes in the treatment of genomic and business method applications, introduced as a result of criticisms of the quality of patents being issued, reduced or at least slowed down the number of patent grants in those fields. And fourth, there does appear to have been some dilution of the application of the nonobviousness standard in biotechnology and some limitations on its proper application to business methods patent applications. Although quality appears to be more problematic in rapidly moving areas of technology newly subject to patenting and perhaps is corrected over time, the cost of waiting for an evolutionary process to run its course may be too high when new technologies attract the level of investment exhibited by the Internet, biotechnology, and now nanotechnology.

What are the costs of uncertainty surrounding patent validity in areas of emerging technology? First, uncertainty may induce a considerable volume of costly litigation. Second, in the absence of litigation, the holders of dubious patents may be unjustly enriched, and the entry of competitive products and services that would enhance consumer welfare may be deterred. Third, uncertainty about what is patentable in an emerging technology may discourage investment in innovation and product development until the courts clarify the law, or inventors may choose to incur the cost of product development only to abandon the market years later when their technology is deemed to infringe. In sum, greater certainty about patent validity would benefit innovators, technological followers, and consumers alike.


*******************

Article 115

Because the claim that quality has deteriorated in a broad and systematic way has not been empirically tested, conclusions must remain tentative. But there are several reasons to suspect that more issued patents are substandard, particularly in technologies newly subject to patenting. One reason to believe that quality has suffered, even before taking examiner qualifications and experience into account, is that in recent years the number of patent examiners has not kept pace with the increase in workload represented by the escalating number and growing complexity of applications. Second, patent approval rates are higher than in some other major nations' patent offices. Third, changes in the treatment of genomic and business method applications, introduced as a result of criticisms of the quality of patents being issued, reduced or at least slowed down the number of patent grants in those fields. And fourth, there does appear to have been some dilution of the application of the nonobviousness standard in biotechnology and some limitations on its proper application to business methods patent applications. Although quality appears to be more problematic in rapidly moving areas of technology newly subject to patenting and perhaps is corrected over time, the cost of waiting for an evolutionary process to run its course may be too high when new technologies attract the level of investment exhibited by the Internet, biotechnology, and now nanotechnology.

What are the costs of uncertainty surrounding patent validity in areas of emerging technology? First, uncertainty may induce a considerable volume of costly litigation. Second, in the absence of litigation, the holders of dubious patents may be unjustly enriched, and the entry of competitive products and services that would enhance consumer welfare may be deterred. Third, uncertainty about what is patentable in an emerging technology may discourage investment in innovation and product development until the courts clarify the law, or inventors may choose to incur the cost of product development only to abandon the market years later when their technology is deemed to infringe. In sum, greater certainty about patent validity would benefit innovators, technological followers, and consumers alike.


*******************

Article 116

Because the claim that quality has deteriorated in a broad and systematic way has not been empirically tested, conclusions must remain tentative. But there are several reasons to suspect that more issued patents are substandard, particularly in technologies newly subject to patenting. One reason to believe that quality has suffered, even before taking examiner qualifications and experience into account, is that in recent years the number of patent examiners has not kept pace with the increase in workload represented by the escalating number and growing complexity of applications. Second, patent approval rates are higher than in some other major nations' patent offices. Third, changes in the treatment of genomic and business method applications, introduced as a result of criticisms of the quality of patents being issued, reduced or at least slowed down the number of patent grants in those fields. And fourth, there does appear to have been some dilution of the application of the nonobviousness standard in biotechnology and some limitations on its proper application to business methods patent applications. Although quality appears to be more problematic in rapidly moving areas of technology newly subject to patenting and perhaps is corrected over time, the cost of waiting for an evolutionary process to run its course may be too high when new technologies attract the level of investment exhibited by the Internet, biotechnology, and now nanotechnology.

What are the costs of uncertainty surrounding patent validity in areas of emerging technology? First, uncertainty may induce a considerable volume of costly litigation. Second, in the absence of litigation, the holders of dubious patents may be unjustly enriched, and the entry of competitive products and services that would enhance consumer welfare may be deterred. Third, uncertainty about what is patentable in an emerging technology may discourage investment in innovation and product development until the courts clarify the law, or inventors may choose to incur the cost of product development only to abandon the market years later when their technology is deemed to infringe. In sum, greater certainty about patent validity would benefit innovators, technological followers, and consumers alike.


*******************

Article 117

Like many small technology based businesses, our company was founded by an inventor and patent holder, in our case it was my wife Julie. After earning a graduate degree from MIT, and with little or no business background, she decided to start her own company to further develop and capitalize on her skills, talents, inventions and discoveries. She found it was useful to have a partner in business with some experience finding funding and navigating the complexity of intellectual property protection - that's where I came in. As an inventor from childhood, with some reasonable commercial success, I had collected a considerable range of experiences learning about the things one did, and did not do, to capitalize on one's creativity. We started with nothing but a few good ideas.

In the last 15 years our company, now employing over a dozen innovators and a similarly sized professional support staff, has produced a number of commercially viable developments in holography, optics, microelectronics and nanotechnology. Some of these discoveries and intellectual developments have been issued United States "letters patent", still others are in the patenting process. We have recently launched an effort to develop innovations that may help win the war against terrorism, work supported with federal government contracts as well as our own private funds. Some of our homeland defense ideas are now in the patent process and will hopefully gain protection as well.

It is important to note that we believe our intellectual property in the long term will have a greater value than our tangible output will in the short term. Said a different way: the product of our minds probably has more value than the things we can make with our hands. This is a theme you will be hearing frequently in representations that there is a need for better patent quality. If intellectual property is not protected with high quality patents, then its value diminishes or goes away.

*******************

Article 118

Intellectual Property: Increasing Importance and Complexity Globally, intellectual property protection is more relevant than ever. Worldwide, 12 million patent applications are pending -in the European Patent Office, the Japan Patent Office, and various national patent offices. Without question, the growing importance of intellectual property protection has a direct impact on the USPTO. Patent applications in the United States have more than doubled since 1992. In the last five years alone, biotechnology- related patent filings at the USPTO increased 46 percent, while pharmaceutical and chemical-related filings climbed 42 percent. As a result, the USPTO issued more patents last year alone (173,000) than it did during the first 40 years of its existence. While the sheer volume of applications is staggering, the technical complexity of patent applications is escalating rapidly. In 1905, more than one-third of U.S. patent filings were bicycle-related. Today, the USPTO routinely examines patent applications in areas such as nanotechnology, bio-informatics, and combinatorial chemistry - - art areas that didn't even exist one hundred years ago. Some patent applications are received on CD-ROMs, containing literally the equivalent of millions of pages of data on paper. The Patent Applications Backlog The dual trends of increased volume and complexity of patent applications filed pose significant challenges for the USPTO. While the volume and technical complexity of patent applications have increased significantly, our capacity to examine patent applications has not risen at the same rate. The result is a pending-application backlog of historic proportions. In essence, we face a unique historical challenge: how to handle record levels of complex work in an efficient manner, without the benefit of a precise role model. Patent pendency (the amount of time a patent application is pending before a patent is issued) now averages more than two years. In more complex art areas such as data-processing technologies, average pendency stands at more than three years. Without fundamental changes in the way USPTO operates, average pendency in these areas could double by 2008.

*******************

Article 119

The United States has been known as the leader in technological innovation. We invented computer operating systems, the Internet and the Global Positioning System. However, there are signs that we are facing more serious competitive challenges from new centers of innovation. For example:

-- Foreign-owned companies and foreign-born individuals account for nearly half of all U.S. patents. 

-- In 2003, China overtook the United States as the world's leading destination for direct foreign investment.

-- And today, Asian countries now spend as much on nanotechnology as the United States.

To ensure that we remain the world leaders in the 21st century innovation economy, we must face these challenges. We must look at the systems and structures that support and feed our economy and ask if they are equipped to handle the demands of the global economy.

*******************

Article 120

While DARPA is not under the jurisdiction of the Science committee, it conducts research on artificial intelligence within NITRD, a multi-agency program that was put in place by the Science Committee. It is difficult to imagine that DARPA is the only agency in NITRD that will contribute in some way to the inevitable creation of artificial intelligence that equals or surpasses human intelligence.

We heard testimony in a Science Committee hearing on April 9, 2003 on the Societal Implications of Nanotechnology that within roughly 25 years artificial intelligence will match or exceed human cognitive abilities. No expert testified that 25 years was an unrealistically short estimate. We cannot ignore that fact and plunge forward with computers as if they are simply tools, without reflecting that we are within a generation of creating another cognitive life form. If we do not study the effects of technological advances now as they are being created and discovered, we run the risk of not realizing the true impact of this technology until it has permeated our society.

Directing the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support research into the implications of computers that would be capable of mimicking human abilities to learn, reason, and make decisions is a common-sense step that will allow us to understand the ramifications of our technological advances as we move towards a new age of artificial intelligence.

*******************

Article 121

Genomics is a prime example of research that takes years to complete and realize many of the benefits, but that fact makes it no less valuable.The ARS budget proposes an increase of $12.8 million for animal and plant genomics and related research and preservation of animal and plant genetic resources. Under CSREES' National Research Initiative (NRI), $11 million is proposed for agricultural genomics research focused on the maize and swine genomes.

Another pioneering research direction, such as nanotechnology, provides a new approach for addressing perennial challenges in agriculture and capitalizing on new possibilities. Nanotechnology refers to research and development at the atomic, molecular or macromolecular levels, in the length scale of approximately 1 to 100 nanometer range. The technology takes advantage of novel properties and functions of systems and structures because of their size. Already used in both the medical and environmental arena, we are only beginning to explore the holds for agriculture. For example, it could be used to develop healthy and tasty foods and products that can be identified and tracked based on nanoscale bar codes. Eight million dollars of the proposed increase in NRI funding will be allocated to nanotechnology.

I would like to highlight three high priority programs in which the REE agencies have a major role that would be enhanced with additional funding in the President's proposed budget. Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative: The interagency Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative, now in its second year, focuses on strengthening the Federal Government's capacity to identify and characterize bioterriorist attacks. The USDA component specifically relates to protecting the food supply and agricultural production, protecting USDA facilities, and ensuring USDA staff preparedness for a potential event. The FY 2006 budget provides increased program funding of $35 million and $26 million for ARS and CSREES, respectively, to expand their participation in this initiative. This investment is just another step in President Bush's promise this technology commitment to protect homeland security.

*******************

Article 122

An increase of $4.6 million is proposed to address emerging issues in food and agricultural defense under the NRI. The requested funding will support research, education, and extension activities to increase the safety and security of U.S. agriculture and food systems to minimize threats to domestic plants and animals posed by infectious diseases and invasive species.

In FY 2006 an increase of $8 million is proposed under the NRI for nanotechnology for functional foods and food safety. The requested funds will support innovative research in nanoscale science and engineering that will have specific applications to agriculture and food systems. Nanotechnology studies will lead to nutrient dense, healthful and flavorful foods with consumer appeal. Food function will be enhanced by using nanotechnologies to facilitate the delivery of health-providing bioactive nutrients to consumers.

Under the NRI, an increase of $7.5 million is proposed in FY 2006 for nutrition and obesity studies with emphasis on research and evaluation methods to prevent childhood obesity. Research efforts will be specifically aimed at understanding the environmental and social factors influencing behaviors leading to childhood obesity and how to change them to reduce and prevent obesity. In addition, requested under the NRI is an increase of $39.3 million for ongoing research and integrated research and education projects that focus on water quality, food safety, and pest- related programs formerly funded under the Integrated Activities account.

*******************

Article 123

Consortium presented NIOSH with the 2003 Award for Excellence in Technology Transfer for this development.

Emerging Technologies - CDC is ,working with international researchers to understand the health impact of nanotechnology and is a member of the Nanostructured Science, Engineering and Technology Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council Committee on Technology (NSET). By precisely marnpulatina and engineering matter at a scale of less than 100 rim (approximately one thousandth the width of a human hair). new materials. structures. and devices are being developed and produced that exhibit unique physical. chemical and biological properties. The occupational health risks associated with manufacturing and using these materials are not clearly understood; and CDC's work in this area is critical as this industry begins to groin, and over 2 million new jobs are created.


*******************

Article 124

Mr. Chairman, while serving in various positions within the Agency, I have relied upon several principles to guide my decisions. Even as we face new challenges, I believe that these are the principles I would rely upon as Administrator, and I'd like to summarize them briefly. First, I will continue to work to ensure that the Agency's decisions are based on the best available scientific information, and that the Agency uses the resources provided by Congress - and those resources we can leverage from other sources - to pursue scientific questions that are important to the health and welfare of the American public. The scientific community continues to make dramatic progress in understanding the effects of pollution on human health and the environment, and how to measure those effects. We see extraordinary advances in disciplines that barely existed ten years ago - in the fields of biotechnology, nanotechnology, and toxicogenomics.

As a scientist, I am intrigued with the promise that these new areas of discovery hold for improving the world we live in. But I also recognize that the process of scientific discovery is not always straightforward; there are times when we're not sure what the science is telling us. So our challenge is to make sure that when we are required to make regulatory or policy decisions, we are using the best available scientific information, and at the same time we should continue to pursue and encourage rigorous scientific inquiry.


*******************

Article 125

ARTHUR: May I also add the SAPI plates, small arm protective insert plates, were developed by the U.S. military for every physician in an Army unit. And that was one of the big advances in body armor protection.

I think the next step, the next leap in advances, is a protective armored nanotechnology fabric-like that can be worn over the whole body. This is one of those areas where military research is so relevant because there's nowhere else that's going to do this kind of research aimed at direct protection of combat infantrymen.

CRENSHAW: Thank you.

*******************

Article 126

So we're trying to understand that cancer process. We're trying to understand it at the very fundamental genetic, and molecular and cellular level as to why and how we're susceptible to different cancers, how and why they develop and then progress in some patients to the point that they actually take our life.

We have a series of investigations to understand that process. We're trying to understand it at the genetic level and also understand it at the molecular and proteomic level, and we've even launched recently an effort in nanotechnology to begin to utilize that field to understand the process.

The specific project that you are referring to is one of those initiatives where we are teaming up with the other NIH agency, the National Genome Institute, to co-partner in an effort to understand and to determine all the genetic changes and mutations that determine our susceptibility to cancer and define the development of cancer.

*******************

Article 127

Between May 2000 and May 2002, Dr. Lebacqz was Deputy Director of the Office of Aerospace at the NASA Ames Research Center. The Aerospace Directorate's research and technology development efforts include advanced aerospace projects, space transportation and thermal protection systems, aviation operations systems, nanotechnology, acoustics, basic and applied aerodynamics, and rotorcraft. The work is performed in seven subordinate Divisions or Offices comprised of approximately 280 civil servant employees and 235 contractors, with an annual budget on the order of $75M. Dr. Lebacqz independently, or in partnership with the Director, was responsible for all personnel and financial management activities associated with the Directorate, as well as the development and transfer to industry and/or other government organizations of advanced air traffic management and flight systems technology, and of rotorcraft, low-speed aeromechanics, and hypersonic aerothermodynamic technologies.

*******************

Article 128

One of our nation's most critical science organizations is the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Almost every Federal agency and U.S. industry sector uses the standards, measurements, and certification services that NIST labs provide. The future of many cuttingedge technologies depends on the research and technical expertise of MST's laboratories. Emerging fields such as nanotech.nology, quantum computing, and bioengineering will not mature into U.S. Job-creating industries and markets without the existence of scientifically-based industrial standards. There is no other U.S. organization, public or private, with the knowledge and skills necessary to provide these highly technical services in a non-discriminatory manner. Fui-thennore, the quality of NIST scientists and research is superb, as evidenced by the two Nobel prizes they have won in the past few years. NIST's expertise in this kind of cutting-edge science is crucial for U.S. industry to remain competitive in the increasingly globalized economy.

*******************

Article 129

But, not only that. There are also very big plans in the field of hi-tech, and in the field of scientific development. Extraordinary things.

I can give you an example, something which fascinates me. You know that I think that the future lies in nanotechnology.

QUESTION: Yes, nanotechnology.

SHIMON PERES: We have now gained a contribution of USD 20 million, to the Ben Gurion University, in order to establish a large nanotechnology center, and I think that I will do it with some government ministries.

In general, ever since we began handling nanotechnology, many contributions have come in, and the matter looks completely different, and that is the future.

QUESTION: But you know, when listening to you speak, we hear a dreamer, a visionary and a philosopher, while the large and important step which needs to be taken before realizing these dreams seems, at this stage, so complex and complicated, maybe almost impossible, and that is the disengagement.

*******************

Article 130

This budget, Mr. Chairman, will enable thousands of researchers located across our Nation to work on some of the most pressing scientific challenges of our age. These researchers will demonstrate the scientific and technological feasibility of creating and controlling a sustained burning plasma to generate energy through participation in ITER (Latin for the way, ITER is an international fusion collaboration); use advanced computation and modeling tools to resolve complex scientific problems; restore U.S. leadership in neutron science with the start of operations at the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS); expand the frontier of nanotechnology through operation of Nanoscale Science Research Centers(NSRCs); pursue an understanding of how the universe began; contribute to our understanding of climate change including the potential of carbon sequestration; develop the knowledge that may enable us to harness microbes and microbial communities to improve energy production and environmental remediation; and contribute basic research that underpins the President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative.

*******************

Article 131

The Department's photovoltaic research and development is focused on next-generation technologies such as thin-film photovoltaic cells and leap-frog technologies such as polymers and nanostructures. The Fiscal Year 2006 request of $75.0 million for photovoltaic energy systems includes $31.4 million for critical laboratory research, $28.6 million for advanced materials and devices, and $15.0 million for technology development efforts to improve reliability of the entire system. The Department has included $4.5 million in the Fiscal Year 2006 request to support the new Collaborative Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Initiative designed to strengthen through research and development the technological competitiveness of U.S. products in a rapidly growing world market.

*******************

Article 132

One of our nation's most critical science organizations is the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Almost every Federal agency and U.S. industry sector uses the standards, measurements, and certification services that NIST labs provide. The future of many cuttingedge technologies depends on the research and technical expertise of NrIST's laboratories. Emerging fields such as nanotechnology, quantum computing, and bioengineering will not mature into U.S. Job-creating industries and markets without the existence of scientifically-based industrial standards. There is no other U.S. organization, public or private, with the knowledge and skills necessary to provide these highly technical services in a non-discriminatory manner. Furthermore, the quality of NIST scientists and research is superb, as evidenced by the two Nobel prizes they have won in the past few years. NIST's expertise in this kind of cutting-edge science is crucial for U.S. industry to remain competitive in the increasingly globalized economy.


*******************

Article 133

Finishing construction and beginning operations of the Spallation Neutron Source, the most powerful tool for neutron scattering measurements in the world by an order of magnitude;

Finishing construction and beginning of operations of four of the five Office of Science Nanoscale Science Research Centers, constructed contiguous to light and neutron sources for characterization of nanostructures and dynamical measurements;

Beginning construction of the world's most powerful X-ray light source, the Linac Coherent Light Source, enabling structural determination of single macromolecules and opening the entirely new field of ultra-fast science;

*******************

Article 134

One of our nation's most critical science organizations is the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Almost every federal agency and type of industry uses the standards, measurements and certification services that NIST labs provide. The future of many cutting-edge technologies depe
nds on the research and technical expertise of NIST's laboratories.

Emerging fields such as nanotechnology, quantum coupling and bioengineering will not mature into U.S. job-creating industries and markets without the existence of scientifically-based industrial standards. There is no other U.S. organization, public or private, with the knowledge and skills necessary to provide these highly technical services in a non-discriminatory manner.

In fact, I am beginning to hear from some of the more advanced industries that they're very concerned that the Europeans are going ahead and establishing standards because NIST simply cannot keep up with the burden. And that's a quick way for us to lose our leadership in the world.

*******************

Article 135

Sec. 619. (a) For additional amounts under the heading "Small Business Administration, Salaries and Expenses", $500,000 shall be available for the Adelante Development Center, Inc.; $150,000 shall be available for the Advanced Polymer Processing Institute; $150,000 shall be available for the Alaska Procurement Technical Assistance Center; $250,000 shall be available for Business and Professional Women of Alaska; $75,000 shall be available for the Center for Applied Research and Economic Development at the University of Southern Indiana; $300,000 shall be available for the Center for Emerging Technologies; $225,000 shall be available for the Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology at the Nevada Commission for Economic Development; $100,000 shall be available for the Central Connecticut State University Institute of Technology and Business Development; $600,000 shall be available for the Des Moines Higher Education Pappajohn Center; $150,000 shall be available for the East Central Indiana Business Incubator at Ball State University; $100,000 shall be available for the Entrepreneurial Venture Assistance Demonstration Project at the Iowa Department of Economic Development; $75,000 shall be available for the Idaho Virtual Incubator at Lewis-Clark State College for an E-Commerce Certification program; $600,000 shall be available for the Industrial Outreach Service at Mississippi State University; $2,000,000 shall be available for the Innovation and Commercialization Center at the University of Southern Mississippi; $100,000 shall be available for the Kennebec Valley Council of Governments' Business Development Program; $100,000 shall be available for the Knoxville College Small Business Incubator Program; $250,000 shall be available for the Louisiana State University Law School's Latin American Commercial Law Program; $250,000 shall be available for the Minority Business Development Center at Alcorn State University; $600,000 shall be available for the Mississippi Technology Alliance; $200,000 shall be available for the Montana Department of Commerce for a State government information sharing initiative; $125,000 shall be available for the Myrtle Beach International Trade and Convention Center; $250,000 shall be available for the Nanotechnology Research Program at the Oregon Health and Science University; $550,000 shall be available for the New Product Development and Commercialization Center for Rural Manufacturers; $125,000 shall be available for the New Hampshire Women's Business Center; $500,000 shall be available for Operation Safe Commerce; $200,000 shall be available for the Southern University Foundation's Martin Luther King Initiative; $75,000 shall be available for Technology 2020; $1,000,000 shall be available for the Technology Venture Center/InvestNet Partnership for Alaska and Montana; $500,000 shall be available for the Textile Marking System; $300,000 shall be available for the Towson University International Business Incubator; $1,000,000 shall be available for the Tuck School of Business/MBDA Partnership; $325,000 shall be available for the University of Colorado Nanotechnology and Characterization Facility; $8,000,000 shall be available for the University of South Carolina Thomas Cooper Library; $100,000 shall be available for the Virginia Electronic Commerce Technology Center at Christopher Newport University; $125,000 shall be available for the Women's Business Development Center in Stamford, Connecticut; and $100,000 shall be available for the World Trade Center of Greater Philadelphia; $50,000 shall be available for a grant to the Center for Excellence in Education; $100,000 shall be available for a grant to The Cedar Creek Battlefield Foundation; $100,000 shall be available for a grant to Belle Grove Plantation; $150,000 shall be available for a grant to the City of Manassas Park for economic development; $100,000 shall be available for a grant to the Shenandoah Valley Travel Association; $1,200,000 shall be available for a grant to Shenandoah University to develop a facility for a business program;

*******************

Article 136

Accordingly, the committee recognizes the importance of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program and is supportive of the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) and Byrne Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) programs.

Recovery of Fuel Revenue

The committee is also concerned about the continued loss of Federal fuels tax revenue through the fraudulent use of untaxed diesel fuels and believes that the IRS could employ nanotechnology to more efficiently and effectively combat fraud and abuse of Federal tax dollars and increase revenue to the Highway Trust Fund. community services block grants

Community Services Block Grants provide invaluable assistance to low-income families and communities. These funds are used to build healthy and stable communities. Due consideration should be given to this program before Congress implements any changes. student loan scoring

*******************

Article 137

Not all programs can or should receive equal priority, and this budget reflects priority choices consistent with recommendations from numerous expert sources. In particular, this budget is informed by recommendations from the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST), and reflects an extensive process of consultation among the Federal agencies, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and OSTP.

As in previous years this R&D budget highlights collaborations among multiple Federal agencies working together on broad themes. I will describe some individual agency highlights, followed by the five multi-agency R&D priorities highlighted in the President's FY 2006 Budget: Networking and Information Technology R&D; National Nanotechnology Initiative; Climate Change R&D; Hydrogen Fuel Initiative; and Homeland Security R&D.

AGENCY BUDGET HIGHLIGHTS

*******************

Article 138

The Space Vehicles Directorate's weather research at Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts, continues to be a SAB-rated world- class technology development program. The weather modeling and simulation capability undergoes frequent spiral upgrades to specify and forecast space weather from the Sun to the ionosphere.

Also, while not specifically identified by the SAB, the Air Force has a significant investment in various aspects of nanotechnology. Scientific breakthroughs and technology advances in the past few years have demonstrated the large potential of nanotechnology to address a number of different Air Force applications. Attributes, such as high strength, could result in lighter and faster air vehicles and could enable miniature satellites. Nanotechnology could also make a significant contribution to advanced energy and energetic materials.

*******************

Article 139

The Army Basic Research program produces new understanding to enable revolutionary advances and paradigm shifts in operational capabilities to enable the Army's Transformation goals. This program invests in world-class expertise (government, academia and industry) and state of the art equipment to explore fundamental phenomena and exploit scientific discovery. These investments are key to the Army's ability to win the race for speed and precision. Today's force has overmatching capabilities enabled by technology developments such as global positioning systems, night vision devices, and precision-guided munitions. These capabilities can be traced to sustained basic research investments in decades past.

The Army's basic research program has five components: World class university-led single investigator research; focused centers to enable paradigm shifting capabilities such as nanotechnology for the soldier; research centers of excellence that advance solutions to enduring needs in the areas such as micro electronics and materials; industry-led collaborative technology alliances focused on robotics, power and energy, communications and networks, advanced sensors, and decision aids; and Army unique, in-house research in behavioral science, infectious diseases and combat casualty care, environmental science, ballistics protection among others.

Some examples of recent progress in Army research are: "liquid armor" to protect Soldier's extremities; remote detection of high explosive materials by using new ultra-sensitive polymers; the creation of interactive computer based avatars for Soldier training; biotechnology for improved sensors; flexible displays for Soldier applications; ultra-small and inexpensive power supplies using dimesized microturbines; and the development of hand-sized UAVs with a full suite of sensors for communication and navigation.

*******************

Article 140

Better weapons designed to benefit everyone, not only the taxpayer, but also the soldiers, Airmen, sailors and Marines responsible for operating the product. Thus affordability should be an established priority.

Despite specific pockets of promising innovation within this budget request, I have additional concerns. It sounds imperative to note investments in innovative propulsion, advance sensors, nanotechnology, new materials and aspects of the radio spectrum. Indeed, mention of these initiatives implies cutting edge progress. But the truth is no substitute exists for a broad, expanding real- growth (ph) investment in basic and applied (inaudible).

Only a real-growth S&T investment can insulate the research community from the inside-the-Beltway budget battles that favor near- term funding shortfalls. The absence of a real growth in S&T accounts is even more disturbing when one considers the looming mass retirement of scientists and engineers in the defense field. If our S&T investment does not help foster an environment that stimulates and encourages intellectual growth, we will not only accelerate retirements, but discourage potential recruits.

*******************

Article 141

This department is a primary source of that, it's the dominant source, I think it's fair to say, in the federal government for funding work in the physical sciences. And we're going to continue to do that. I think we've got -- this '06 budget has got money for four new nanotechnology labs that will be -- that are in the science program. And the new so-called spallation neutron reactor, which is going to provide a new resource. That's I believe at Oak Ridge. All of this is part and parcel of what we do and should be doing. We are in very tough shape in terms of our budgets as you're well aware, and that's really got -- that's what the bulk of the questions from your colleagues on this committee -- this subcommittee have been working me over this morning, and I -- maybe I'm overly sensitive. In any event --

REP. HOBSON: You just haven't been here before.

REP. LEWIS: You're brand new on the job, I must say not only do they tend to be easy, but also it's easier for you to ignore just how they could ask such stupid questions.

MR. BODMAN: The questions have been pretty good if I have to say so, sir. Anyway, I just would point out I agree with you, and I think, you know, I too am a student of not just what's happening in India, look at China, same thing. A lot of our best students have come to this country, and you can look at the numbers, which I did last week with the people from the American Physical Society, who were around to see me, and you look at the numbers and more and more of the Indian students, more and more of the Chinese students, all of them used to come here for graduate work.

They used to go to the IIT, and as I said some of my best graduate students were people in -- from India, from China, from Japan. They're not -- they're staying home, and so it's a real problem. And they're building up. They've seen how we have -- they've seen the formula that this country has fallen into. I was going to say used as though we had some plan. I don't think we did. I think it just sort of happened, and the -- and they're emulating.

REP. LEWIS: Well, Mr. Secretary, just by way of comment, the -- one of these days you'll be coming to California, I'm sure. Some really interesting stuff is happening at the University of California, at Riverside, UCLA and UCR, in the nanotechnology field. I'd love to expose you to some of that, but hand in hand is an illustration of a charter school system that works where a fellow has tapped into a formerly NASA antenna that bought people back from the moon, but he's given it to a local charter school that are stimulating kids of the third grade to become involved in the math and science fields in ways that have never been done before that I know of, at least in my state. But people like you who are top leaders can really help us make a difference. So I look forward to working with you, sir.

*******************

Article 142

Maintains the accelerated environmental cleanup program - The FY 2006 budget proposes $6.5 billion within the Environment Management program to continue to meet the accelerated schedule for cleanup of contaminated sites left behind by Cold War-era nuclear development. The Department has cleaned up 76 of the 107 sites to date. By the end of FY 2006, a number of additional sites will close, including the planned closure of Rocky Flats, CO, and Fernald and Mound in Ohio.

--Sustains important scientific investments - The budget includes $3.5 billion for Science activities, including continued operation of DOE's scientific facilities, completion of the construction of the most intense pulsed neutron beams in the world known as the Spallation Neutron Source, support for scientific supercomputing, nanoscale research centers, and basic research in genomics and hydrogen.

--Capitalizes on emerging opportunities in nuclear, fossil and renewable energy and energy efficiency - The budget includes $2.6 billion for energy resource programs to enable a reliable, secure and affordable supply of energy for our Nation's growing economy, while doing so in an environmentally responsible way.

*******************

Article 143

We continue to interact and collaborate with federal, state and local governments in areas that affect both military and civilian mission areas. One important project that the Department has funded with other partners (e.g. Department of Homeland Security) is 13 called the Homeland Security/Homeland Defense Command and Control ACTD. This ACTD links DoD capabilities (e.g. United States Northern Command) with civilian authorities to address important communication and common operational picture challenges for federal, state and local communities.

Over the past two years, we have conducted net assessments to address global progress in technology areas such as nanotechnology, energetic materials, and directed energy. We will continue to refine the net assessment process and expand it to other technology areas. DDR&E is a formal member of the S&T Intelligence Committee, a National Intelligence Council Working Group, with representation from across the IC.

Accelerate Support to the Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) The Combating Terrorism Technology Task Force (CTTTF) continues to coordinate potential solutions to new challenges in the GWOT with the technology communities in the DoD, academia, industry, and other departments of the federal government. The Task Force is currently in its third major phase of operation. The first phase accelerated technologies for homeland defense and the war in Afghanistan, in late 2001. Phase II delivered technology in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. Technologies were accelerated to field several specialized, unique weapons which focused on specific threats, such as the AGM-114N Thermobaric Hellfire discussed previously and other support to our fighting forces.


*******************

Article 144

The Army Basic Research program produces new understanding to enable revolutionary advances and paradigm shifts in operational capabilities to enable the Army's Transformation goals. This program invests in world-class expertise (government, academia and industry) and state of the art equipment to explore fundamental phenomena and exploit scientific discovery. These investments are key to the Army's ability to win the race for speed and precision. Today's force has overmatching capabilities enabled by technology developments such as global positioning systems, night vision devices, and precision-guided munitions. These capabilities can be traced to sustained basic research investments in decades past.

The Army's basic research program has five components: World class university-led single investigator research; focused centers to enable paradigm shifting capabilities such as nanotechnology for the soldier; research centers of excellence that advance solutions to enduring needs in the areas such as micro electronics and materials; industry-led collaborative technology alliances focused on robotics, power and energy, communications and networks, advanced sensors, and decision aids; and Army unique, in-house research in behavioral science, infectious diseases and combat casualty care, environmental science, ballistics protection among others.

Some examples of recent progress in Army research are: "liquid armor" to protect Soldier's extremities; remote detection of high explosive materials by using new ultra-sensitive polymers; the creation of interactive computer based avatars for Soldier training; biotechnology for improved sensors; flexible displays for Soldier applications; ultra-small and inexpensive power supplies using dimesized microturbines; and the development of hand-sized UAVs with a full suite of sensors for communication and navigation.

*******************

Article 145

Thermo mechanical process modeling of metals is having a significant impact on material standards and process control. The SAB also rated the Automatic Target Recognition (ATR) work performed by the Sensors Directorate at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, as world-class. ATR enables faster and more accurate detection, identification, and prosecution of time- critical targets. We are developing ATR tools to better detect targets in urban and obscured environments, as well as 10 to change detection algorithms to aid in the detection of improvised explosive devices or IEDs. By fusing detection and cueing tools with signature databases and advanced signature modeling we continue to shorten the "kill chain." The Space Vehicles Directorate's weather research at Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts, continues to be a SAB-rated world-class technology development program. The weather modeling and simulation capability undergoes frequent spiral upgrades to specify and forecast space weather from the Sun to the ionosphere. Also, while not specifically identified by the SAB, the Air Force has a significant investment in various aspects of nanotechnology. Scientific breakthroughs and technology advances in the past few years have demonstrated the large potential of nanotechnology to address a number of different Air Force applications. Attributes, such as high strength, could result in lighter and faster air vehicles and could enable miniature satellites. Nanotechnology could also make a significant contribution to advanced energy and energetic materials. COMBATING TERRORISM The Air Force S&T Program has a considerable portfolio of technology focused on the GWOT. One prime example is the Elastomeric Coating, which the Air Force developed to protect key buildings and installations from close proximity explosions. This easy-to-apply spray coating is contributing to the safety and protection of deployed troops. As mentioned earlier, the Air Force continues to provide spiral upgrades to the Air Force Special Tactics Combat Controllers BAO kit. Lighter batteries, hearing protection, and more efficient target designation are some examples of ongoing BAO kit technology enhancements. Another enhancement example is the Battlefield Air Targeting Camera Autonomous Micro-air 11 vehicle (BATCAM). 

*******************

Article 146

4.The challenge is not solely domestic. It is not enough for the United States to work in isolation to solve its own problems. Suppose we want to map the human genome, or develop nanotechnology, or a new cure for cancer. Suppose that other nations of the world do not wish to join with us. In these cases and many more, if we have to, we can go it alone. By contrast, if we want to produce a climate outlook, or assess the effect of climate change on the world's ecosystems, we must rely on international cooperation. This is even true of a weather forecast for more than the next few hours. To illustrate: the air that will be over Washington, DC in five days is currently over Asia and Siberia. Unless we know whether that air is moist or dry, hot or cold, we will not be able to predict its condition, and its consequences (will it produce rain or snow?), upon arrival here. Furthermore, to the extent that other countries fall prey to natural hazards, such as tsunamis, hurricanes, cycles of flood and drought, the effects are destabilizing and spill over into this country. Following Hurricane Mitch in 1998, which reduced Central American GDP by 50%, there was an uptick of illegal immigration into this country by Central Americans looking for work. Similarly, the aftermath of December's tsunami will continue to constrain the hopes and aspirations

of peoples bordering on the Indian Ocean for years to come. Countries have shared meteorological data for decades, but the increasing value of such information and country-to-country differences in public and private roles in the provision of that information have led to some fraying of the international agreements in recent years. It is important for all nations to maintain commitments to full and open exchange of meteorological data. Countries can then extend that foundation into more problematic areas such as ecological data sharing. GEOSS is an important foreign policy opportunity for the United States - a major arena where we can be, and be seen as, a good neighbor. Again, the recent AMS policy study indicates some ways international data sharing might be strengthened and broadened, by developing a negotiating process to progressively remove data restrictions on a case by case basis.

*******************

Article 147

Beyond our budget priorities lie dozens of programs and initiatives that cut across NSF directorates and enrich the overall science and research enterprise. NSF sets priorities based on a continual dialogue and exchange of ideas with the research community, NSF management and staff and the National Science Board. Programs are initiated based on several criteria: intellectual merit, broader impacts of the research, balance across disciplines and synergy with research in other agencies. The Committee of Visitors process ensures a continuous evaluation of our merit review process and feedback on how NSF programs are performing. In FY 2006, NSF will emphasize four crosscutting areas.

Crosscutting areas of emerging opportunity: Over several years, NSF has funded exceptionally promising interdisciplinary efforts aimed at advancing our knowledge, addressing national needs, and probing the grand challenges of science. The FY 2006 request maintains or increases FY 2005 levels of funding for the following priority areas: $84 million for Biocomplexity in the Environment, $243 million for Nanoscale Science and Engineering, $89 million for the Mathematical Sciences Priority Area and $39 million for Human and Social Dynamics.

International Collaborations: Science and engineering research are increasingly global endeavors. International partnerships are critical to the United States in maintaining a competitive edge, capitalizing on global opportunities, and addressing global problems. The Office of International Science and Engineering's recent move to the director's office, and the budget request reflects this important trend. The FY 2006 budget provides $35 million for NSF's Office of International Science and Engineering.

+++++++++++++++++++


Interagency Initiatives: NSF will continue to play a lead role in interagency collaborations to address national needs and take advantage of economic growth opportunities. In FY 2006, NSF investments in the National Nanotechnology Initiative increase by $6 million over FY 2005 levels to total $344 million. NSF participation in the Networking Information Technology Research and Development initiative will increase to $803 million - $8 million over the FY 2005 level. The NSF contribution to the Climate Change Science Program decreases slightly to $197 million.


*******************

Article 148

As a result of this capability review and risk assessment, the Air Force realigned approximately $500 million of its S&T funding to support higher priority areas over the FYDP.

These areas include battlefield air operations, or BAO, kit, which I'll discuss in more detail in a moment, the commander's predictive environment, which teams our human effective in information technology communities, working on network-centric warfare applications, and Air Force-unique nanotechnology efforts in the areas of chemistry, electronics and materials.

Fiscal constraints, operational demands and ongoing peacekeeping operations, and conflicts in such places as Afghanistan and Iraq continue to place a great burden on our people, our already stressed operational systems and our supporting logistics.

*******************

Article 149

It's the dominant source, I think it's fair to say, in the federal government, for funding work in the physical sciences.

We're going to continue to do that. I think we've got, in this '06 budget, money for four new nanotechnology labs that are in the science program, and the new so-called stilation (ph) neutron reactor, which is going to provide a new resource. That's, I believe, at Oak Ridge.

All of this is part and parcel of what we do and we should be doing. We are in very tough shape in terms of our budgets, as you're well aware, and that's what the bulk of the questions from your colleagues on this subcommittee have been working me over this morning.

*******************

Article 150

When you look at our National Institute of General Medical Sciences, they have had regular interactions with NSF -- I can show you the programs. We have a program called Mathematics and Biology. We just had a workshop organized by NIH where we had all of the other agencies come together to talk about the interface of physical sciences and biomedical sciences in this age.

Because we do believe, and I do believe very strongly as my colleagues do, we will not make rapid progress unless we embrace physical sciences, computer technology, nanotechnology.

There is a $144 million initiative that the National Cancer Institute and Dr. von Eschenbach has launched in nanotechnology.

It was not excess money or extra money, he made the right choice -- the tough choice to go into an area that implies collaboration with Department of Energy, DOD and so on.

*******************

Article 151

-- Maintains the accelerated environmental cleanup program--The FY 2006 budget proposes $6.5 billion within the Environment Management program to continue to meet the accelerated schedule for cleanup of contaminated sites left behind by Cold War-era nuclear development. The Department has cleaned up 76 of the 107 sites to date. By the end of FY 2006, a number of additional sites will close including Rocky Flats, CO, and Fernald and Mound in Ohio.

-- Sustains important scientific investments--The budget includes $3.5 billion for Science activities, including continued operation of DOE's scientific facilities, completion of the construction of the most intense pulsed neutron beams in the world known as the Spallation Neutron Source, support for scientific supercomputing, nanoscale research centers, and basic research in genomics and hydrogen.

-- Capitalizes on emerging opportunities in nuclear, fossil and renewable energy and energy efficiency--The budget includes $2.6 billion for energy resource programs to enable a reliable, secure and affordable supply of energy for our Nation's growing economy, while doing so in an environmentally responsible way.

*******************

Article 152

The Technology Administration and its various components seek to maximize technology's contribution to economic growth, high-wage job creation, and the social well-being of the United States. TA and NIST not only serve as advocates for technological innovation but also analyze the factors that affect our competitiveness and develop the tools needed to enhance productivity, trade, and, in the end, the quality of life for all Americans. In addition, NIST is engaged in critical research in high-priority areas of technological innovation such as nanotechnology, information technology, biotechnology, and manufacturing technology. NIST is also conducting research in response to the World Trade Center tragedy and the February 2003 nightclub fire in Rhode Island to better prepare facility owners, contractors, architects, engineers, emergency responders, and regulatory authorities to prevent future disasters.

To meet the Nation's needs in setting technological standards, we propose increased funding to NIST laboratories for high priority research areas and necessary facilities upgrades and maintenance. The increases include $39.8 million to enhance research capabilities in manufacturing (particularly in the area of nanotechnology), expand public safety and security programs, and provide the measurement infrastructure for emerging needs of the Nation's research community, and $32 million to support the Facilities Improvement Plan for critical construction, major repair, and renovation projects at the NIST sites in Boulder, Colorado, and Gaithersburg, Maryland. Consistent with the Administration's continuing emphasis on shifting resources to reflect changing needs, the FY 2006 Budget proposes to terminate the Advanced Technology Program. We propose to fund the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program (HMEP) at $46.8 million. This level of funding, combined with expanding partnerships with other agencies and institutions, will allow the HMEP to maintain a national network.


*******************

Article 153

The following are the 5 key "Pillars of Safety" that we think are critical to reforms at the FDA:

1- Safety and Efficacy must continue to be the foundational elements of the FDA regulatory process. Safety cannot exist in a vacuum apart from efficacy.

2- Mechanisms to enhance existing structures and processes for post market safety monitoring and adverse event reporting must be explored.

3- Efforts to bring even greater efficiency and scientific expertise to the FDA's review and monitoring processes must continue; such efforts must be done in a manner that empowers the Agency to keep pace with the rapid advancements now occurring in areas such as genomics, proteomics, and nanotechnology.

4- FDA must continue to work with industry, patient groups, physicians, hospitals, academia, and other government agencies to enhance the critical path.

5- The FDA must be sufficiently resourced in order to insure more effective pursuit of its existing mandates. Additional resources are even more essential if FDA is to successfully implement a comprehensive suite of reforms.

*******************

Article 154

For example, just one year after President Bush launched his space initiative, the administration has already started backpedaling on a multiyear funding profile it had proposed for the agency. As a result, the administration is planning to cut a total of some $2.5 billion from the budget plan for FY 06 to FY 09 that has been proposed for NASA just a year ago. It's also instructed to see how NASA proposed to allocate the cut. It allocates 75 percent of the required cuts to NASA's science and aeronautics program, with just 10 percent having to be absorbed by NASA's exploration systems programs.

What other clues to NASA's new priorities are displayed in this year's budget request? As we've all heard, NASA's eliminating the funding for servicing the highly productive Hubble Space Telescope. NASA is cutting funding it contributes to the national interagency initiatives in nanotechnology, networking, information technology, and climate change science. NASA is eliminating funding for hypersonics research. NASA is reducing space shuttle operation reserves in FY 06 and 07 in order to support the funding requirements of the exploration initiative. NASA is cutting the funding for its science mission operation's account, an action that will force the termination of some ongoing scientific spacecraft missions within the next year.

I could cite other examples, but you get the picture. Contrary to the image it has fostered of a measured go-as-you-pay approach for exploration, the fact is that NASA is protecting the funding for its exploration initiative at the expense of other programs. I think it's reasonable to assume that unless directed otherwise, NASA will continue that approach in the future as deficit concerns increasingly squeeze the agency's budgetary bottom line. And as I have previously stated, I am a strong supporter of exploration. I think it's important for our nation's human space flight program to have a challenging long-term goal, and I agree with the president that a step-by-step plan for exploration makes the best sense. 

*******************

Article 155

Chairman Bond, Ranking Minority Member Mikulski, and Members of the Subcommittee, I am pleased to appear before you once again to discuss the President's research and development (R&D) budget. As I have said many times before, I greatly appreciate the effective working relationship between our office and your Committee, which I believe has resulted in good outcomes for the Nation's science and technology enterprise.

The budget this year is subject to considerable pressure, as you know, and the President is committed to cutting the budget deficit in half by 2009. These factors make this year's budget proposal the tightest in nearly two decades. Despite these pressures, Federal R&D funds will increase in the President's fiscal year (FY) 2006 budget. The Budget maintains a strong focus on winning the war against terrorism, while moderating the growth in overall spending, and this focus is reflected in the proposed R&D investments. The Administration has also maintained high levels of support for priority areas such as nanotechnology, information technology, the hydrogen initiative, and space exploration. Furthermore, while overall "non-security" discretionary spending is reduced by one percent, "non- security" R&D is not correspondingly diminished. The FY06 proposal preserves the substantial increases made--with your support--during the first term of this Administration. This treatment of R&D is consistent with the President's commitment to science and technology and the vital role they play in meeting the Nation's goals for national and economic security and the quality of life.

*******************

Article 156

The recent Indian Ocean Tsunami disaster represents the finest in international cooperation--and clearly demonstrates an international desire to develop scientific methods for natural disaster prediction and ways to reduce losses when such catastrophic events do inevitably occur. A network of more than 128 sensors--which NSF has a 20-year investment in--recorded shock waves from the recent earthquake as they traveled around the earth. This network is the primary international source of data for earthquake location and tsunami warning and its data forged the critical core of the early knowledge of this event. Within days of the disaster NSF research teams deployed to the region to gather critical data before it was lost to nature and reconstruction. Their work will help scientists and engineers better understand the warning signs of natural disasters, the design of safer coastal structures, the development of early warning and response systems, and effective steps for disaster recovery.

Interagency Initiatives: NSF will continue to play a lead role in interagency collaborations to address national needs and take advantage of economic growth opportunities. In FY 2006, NSF investments in the National Nanotechnology Initiative increase by $6 million over FY 2005 levels to total $344 million. NSF participation in the Networking Information Technology Research and Development initiative will increase to $803 million--$8 million over the FY 2005 level. The NSF contribution to the Climate Change Science Program decreases slightly to $197 million.

Homeland Security Activities: The FY 2006 Request includes a $2 million increase for government-wide efforts in homeland security research and development. This $344 million investment will strengthen NSF's commitment to cybersecurity by supporting innovations to secure today's computer and networking systems, embed cybersecurity into future systems and preparing tomorrow's workforce with state-of-the-art security skills.

*******************

Article 157

What other clues through NASA's new priorities are displayed in this year's budget request?

As we've all heard, NASA is eliminating the funding for servicing the highly productive Hubble Space Telescope.

NASA is cutting funding it contributes to the national interagency initiative in nanotechnology, networking, information technology and climate change science.

NASA is eliminating funding for hypersonics research.

*******************

Article 158

With that, Dr. Marburger.

MR. JOHN H. MARBURGER III: Thank you, Chairman Boehlert and Ranking Member Gordon and members of the committee. I am pleased to appear before you once again to discuss the president's R&D budget for Fiscal Year 2006. As you know and have said in your opening remarks, despite the exceptional pressure on this budget, it does propose an increase in federal R&D funds. The budget maintains a strong focus on winning the war against terrorism while moderating the growth in overall spending, and this focus is reflected in the proposed R&D investment.

The administration has made difficult choices and it's maintained the strength in priority areas such as nanotechnology, information technology, the hydrogen initiative and space exploration. Furthermore, while overall non-security discretionary spending is reduced by 1 percent, non-security R&D is not correspondingly diminished. The FY '06 proposal preserves the substantial increases made -- and I might add, with your support, Mr. Chairman, and that of your committee -- during the first term of this administration. My written testimony does summarize the extraordinary growth of R&D funding during the past four years and it's from that plateau of excellence that we view this budget proposal.

This budget requests $132.3 billion for federal R&D, an increase of $733 million over the current year's record R&D budget. The budget allocates 13.6 percent of total discretionary outlays to R&D, the highest level in 37 years. Non-Defense R&D accounts for 5.6 percent of the total discretionary outlays, an amount significantly greater than the 5 percent over the past three decades.

*******************

Article 159

Chairman Boehlert, Ranking Minority Member Gordon, and Members of the Committee, I am pleased to appear before you once again to discuss the President's research and development (R&D) budget. As I have said many times before, I greatly appreciate the effective working relationship between our office and your Committee, which I believe has resulted in good outcomes for the nation's science and technology enterprise. The budget this year is subject to considerable pressure, as you know, and the President is committed to cutting the budget deficit in half by 2009. These factors make this year's budget proposal the tightest in nearly two decades. Despite these pressures, Federal R&D funds will increase in the President's fiscal year (FY) 2006 budget. The Budget maintains a strong focus on winning the war against terrorism, while moderating the growth in overall spending, and this focus is reflected in the proposed R&D investments. The Administration has also maintained high levels of support for priority areas such as nanotechnology, information technology, the hydrogen initiative, and space exploration. Furthermore, while overall "non-security" discretionary spending is reduced by one percent, "non-security" R&D is not correspondingly diminished. The FY06 proposal preserves the substantial increases made - with your support - during the first term of this Administration. This treatment of R&D is consistent with the President's commitment to science and technology and the vital role they play in meeting the Nation's goals for national and economic security and the quality of life. Comparing R&D investments in this Administration with investments in other top national priorities demonstrates this commitment:

*******************

Article 160


The budget request for the Office of Science of $3.5 billion maintains a solid foundation for scientific discovery. In light of the emphasis that this Budget places on deficit control, this level of funding for the Office of Science signals a strong commitment on the part of the Administration to invest in the promise of basic research for discoveries that leapfrog today's technology.

The priorities we have set are clear. Through the 2006 Budget, we will fully support Presidential initiatives in fusion and hydrogen, we will continue strong support for other Administration priorities such as nanotechnology and information technology, we will complete . . . on time and within budget . . . unique scientific facilities that will maintain and enhance research in areas we believe offer the greatest potential for broad advances in future energy technologies. These scientific facilities were prioritized in our 20-year facilities outlook, announced in November 2003.

We will continue moving ahead with our FreedomCAR research and the President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative to develop hydrogen- fueled vehicles and the infrastructure to support them. We are also carrying forward with U.S. participation in the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor project to pursue the potential of energy from nuclear fusion.

*******************

Article 161

Crosscutting Activities Beyond our budget priorities lie dozens of programs and initiatives that cut across NSF directorates and enrich the overall science and research enterprise. NSF sets priorities based on a continual dialogue and exchange of ideas with the research community, NSF management and staff and the National Science Board. Programs are initiated based on several criteria: intellectual merit, broader impacts of the research, balance across disciplines and synergy with research in other agencies. The Committee of Visitors process ensures a continuous evaluation of our merit review process and feedback on how NSF programs are performing. In FY 2006, NSF will emphasize four crosscutting areas.

Crosscutting areas of emerging opportunity: Over several years, NSF has funded exceptionally promising interdisciplinary efforts aimed at advancing our knowledge, addressing national needs, and probing the grand challenges of science. The FY 2006 request maintains or increases FY 2005 levels of funding for the following priority areas: $84 million for Biocomplexity in the Environment, $243 million for Nanoscale Science and Engineering, $89 million for the Mathematical Sciences Priority Area and $39 million for Human and Social Dynamics.

International Collaborations: Science and engineering research are increasingly global endeavors. International partnerships are critical to the United States in maintaining a competitive edge, capitalizing on global opportunities, and addressing global problems. The Office of International Science and Engineering's recent move to the director's office, and the budget request reflects this important trend. The FY 2006 budget provides $35 million for NSF's Office of International Science and Engineering.


+++++++++++++++++++

Interagency Initiatives: NSF will continue to play a lead role in interagency collaborations to address national needs and take advantage of economic growth opportunities. In FY 2006, NSF investments in the National Nanotechnology Initiative increase by $6 million over FY 2005 levels to total $344 million. NSF participation in the Networking Information Technology Research and Development initiative will increase to $803 million - $8 million over the FY 2005 level. The NSF contribution to the Climate Change Science Program decreases slightly to $197 million.

Homeland Security Activities: The FY 2006 Request includes a $2 million increase for government-wide efforts in homeland security research and development. This $344 million investment will strengthen NSF's commitment to cybersecurity by supporting innovations to secure today's computer and networking systems, embed cybersecurity into future systems and preparing tomorrow's workforce with state-of-the-art security skills.


*******************

Article 162


Advances in Manufacturing ($19.6 million increase) The Department is requesting a $19.6 milllion increase for NIST in Advanced Manufacturing research. The growth of the global economy - the rapid exchange of goods and technologies - has placed unprecedented pressures on the Nation's manufacturing sector. Most observers agree that if the United States is to compete successfully, it must be on the basis of sustained, superior innovation in all aspects of manufacturing. We must lead the pack. Innovation must go further than new products and processes, however. The United States must innovate in the business of manufacturing, improving efficiencies and continuing the productivity increases that have sustained the manufacturing sector since the Second World War. --National Nanomanufacturing and Nanometrology Facility (N3F) ($10 million). The largest major element of NIST's advanced manufacturing initiative is the development of a national "user facility" for nanotechnology research in the AML. The N3F will give qualified collaborators from industry and government access to the state-of-the-art laboratories of the AML, the existing nanotechnology expertise of the seven NIST laboratories, and mechanisms for partnering on nanotech projects. Together with public and private sector partners, NIST will use the N3F to investigate the fundamental physics, mechanisms and metrology to manipulate matter atom-by- atom, in order to build perfectly defined nanostructures with predefined electronic, mechanical, and quantum properties. N3F will offer U.S. industry in a single institution an unmatched measurement infrastructure to compete at the nanoscale.

--Nanomanufacturing research ($4 million). As manufacturing processes and products become ever more sophisticated, the key battlefields of 21st-century manufacturing will depend more and more on excellence in measurement technology. This is true across the board in manufacturing, but nowhere more so than in the rapidly developing field of nanomanufacturing, where it can be necessary to locate, track and manipulate individual molecules and atoms. NIST's nanomanufacturing research effort will concentrate on delivering the critical measurement technology and standards infrastructure across the broad spectrum of science and engineering that is "nanotechnology," including nanodevices (mechanical and electronic), nanomagnetics, nanomanipulation, and nanoscale materials characterization. NIST is uniquely positioned for this work not only because of its long history of expertise in measurement research, but also because of the recent completion of its Advanced Measurement Laboratory (AML), which offers a unique collection of state-of-the-art precision measurement labs. --Manufacturing enterprise integration ($1.6 million). America's large manufacturers are globally distributed enterprises. They rely on a system of small manufacturers, part suppliers, shippers, and raw materials producers organized in extended enterprises called supply chains. Successfully managing production throughout the supply chain is critical to the competitiveness of these extended enterprises. Production costs are no longer the major cost drivers in these global supply chains - the dominant factor is the cost of engineering and business activities. But many small manufacturers not equipped to do business in these sophisticated, distributed enterprises are being left out and are in danger of failure. One independent economic study commissioned by NIST shows that the automotive supply chain alone loses $1 billion annually due to inefficient engineering and business data exchanges. NIST proposes a wide- ranging program to work with U.S. manufacturers to create a "roadmap" for the development of open standards for enterprise integration, to develop and test standards and standard conformance tests, and to ensure that they are integrated and consistent with developing international standards.

*******************

Article 163

MARBURGER: Thank you, Chairman Boehlert and Ranking Member Gordon and members of the committee. I am pleased to appear before you once again to discuss the president's R&D budget for fiscal year 2006.

As you know and have said in your opening remarks, despite the exceptional pressure on this budget, it does propose an increase in federal R&D funds. The budget maintains a strong focus on winning the war against terrorism, while moderating the growth in overall spending, and this focus is reflected in the proposed R&D investments.

The administration has made difficult choices, and it's maintained a strength in priority areas such as nanotechnology, information technology, the hydrogen initiative and space exploration.

Furthermore, while overall non-security discretionary spending is reduced by 1 percent, non-security R&D is not correspondingly diminished.

The FY '06 proposal preserves the substantial increases made -- and I might add, with your support, Mr. Chairman, and that of your committee -- during the first term of this administration.


*******************

Article 164

Today our country is making incredible progress. Our scientific treatises and inventions have increased in volume. We've become self- sufficient in areas we couldn't have dreamed of years ago.

Today your children export our technical and engineering services worldwide.

Today we're setting a tremendous foundation for great progress in bio-technology, (nanotechnology), IT and genetic research. Your children are making us proud in every field -- including nuclear technology.

Let me tell the world that our country's children have achieved such a level of industrial growth and peaceful nuclear technology despite the many restrictions and sanctions.

As we've often said before and as the recent resolution of the IAEA Board of Governors indicates, the Iranian nuclear program is peaceful. But our country's children, citizens and scientists didn't ask for anyone's permission or help to develop a technology which is the culmination of our country's scientific research. And neither will they stop their work do to anyone else's unjust demands.

*******************

Article 165

"Smart Cards" to allow rapid identification of on-scene emergency personnel, and the "Heads Up" display that will allow firefighters to identify people and objects through smoke and debris. In FY 2005, our focus is on the development and application of revolutionary materials and technologies that can be used in multi-hazard environments, are applicable to diverse users, and function as an integral part of a more complex personal protection system. We have issued a Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) to solicit ideas from industry, academia and others on ways to achieve better personal protection systems. Our focus is on the innovative materials that incorporate surface science, nanotechnologies and other advancements to create materials that are lighter-weight, have the ability to withstand the challenges of strenuous activity in unstable and uncertain conditions and provide protection against a multitude of hazards. In addition to actual technology development for PPE, we will also continue our partnership with OSLGCP and other Federal agencies in the development of a Technology Clearinghouse "hub and spoke" concept to enable first responders to access important information on existing and emerging technologies, training, and relevant standards through a single knowledge portal. In FY 2006, the portfolio will demonstrate several revolutionary and highly innovative materials for emergency personal protective equipment (PPE) applications. We will demonstrate prototype materials and technologies that can that can be made into functional garments or integrated personal protective systems. Solutions will be sought for: -- materials that can be used in diverse applications; -- materials that can provide protection during response to chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive (CBRNE) events; 

*******************

Article 166

PEARCE: The national strategy plan, excuse me.

REIMER: I do not know the specifics of what is written in that. I will have to go back and look at that part of it.

PEARCE: OK, fair enough.

Mr. Albright, you mentioned the nanotechnology is doing really great things as far as providing biological protections for our first responders. Could you give me an example of what nanotechnology has done?

ALBRIGHT: For example, in detection systems, one can develop very sensitive and yet, one of the issues we have with detectors in general is the lack of specificity. We can get very sensitive detectors, but then they false alarm all over the place. With nanotechnology, it is possible to develop exquisitely selective detection systems for certain chemicals that you really cannot do any other way.

PEARCE: Sure. I appreciate that. I appreciate all your answers. We got a lot in the five minutes.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

*******************

Article 167

Obviously the communications revolution will continue and be a powerful driver of the future. Lots of implications for U.S. national security. But for intelligence, once you put together ubiquitous encryption, packet switching, sheer volume, all of those things, it isn't hard to realize that the implication for intelligence is that if we're going to intercept signals, understand signals, we're going to have to get close to those signals. Once they disappear into packet switching or into the atmosphere -- well, unhappily, not much into the atmosphere anymore -- we lose them. So meeting the need to get close, that again means collaborations we haven't seen. It means that the DO is in some sense an enabler for NSA -- a role that it started to think of but it needs to do much more.

Second example would be thinking about new technologies -- nanotech, biotech, all of those. What strikes you about those, as you think about their implications for intelligence, is that, much like communications technology, they put us in a race between what our adversaries can do with those technologies against us versus what we can do with them against them. For instance, new tagging technologies will give us some ability to tag things, maybe even people; at the same time, those technologies may make it easier for the bad guys out there to target our agents and follow our agents as they seek to do their work abroad.

One final point, and this really grows out of the broad driver of the revolution in military affairs. There are very big choices out there for intelligence and the military. Some of them are policy choices, as we think about how often we're going to involve U.S. troops in contingency operations in various parts of the world. But the big decisions for the DNI and the secretary of Defense will be how much of that intelligence, that sensor capability, imagery and signals, will be embodied in the operation of military units themselves versus how much it will stay with, quote, national systems. 

*******************

Article 168

Haitian boat people to learn within a day what fraction of their predecessors have been screened into the United States. Economic globalization: The international economy will continue characterized by opening markets, virtually unrestricted capital and the global reach of multinational firms. "Bads" - arms, drugs, lethal materials or weapons, and laundered money - will move almost as freely across borders as goods like trade, investment, financial flows, and technologies. However, the global economy is driving the haves and the have-nots further apart, including in the United States, and the backlash against globalization may pose a specific threat to America's security when activities turn to riots and violence to protest multinational corporate power.

Other technological advances: The communications and information revolutions will be joined by rapid advances in biotechnology, biometrics, microelectronics, nanotechnology, and materials technologies. Progress in the range of wired and wireless technologies will make for faster and cheaper flows of information around the world. These technologies will also permit information to be stored and processed in new ways. For instance, Internet Voice, also known as Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), allows individuals to make telephone calls using a broadband Internet connection instead of an analog phone line. The life cycles of both products and processes will be shorter and shorter, and their diffusion around the world quicker and quicker, making it difficult for intelligence to keep up with innovations. New technologies can improve the ability to perform genetic and blood analyses; monitor and track adversaries; and gather information. At the same time, however, those same technologies will make it easier for terrorists, criminals, and spies to communicate with each other, distribute propaganda, gather information, conduct espionage, and criminal activity, and target the U.S. through cyber attacks.


*******************

Article 169

But for intelligence, once you put together ubiquitous encryption, packet switching, sheer volumes, all of those things, it isn't hard to realize that the implication for intelligence is that if we're going to intercept signals, understand signals, we're going to have to get close to those signals. Once they disappear into packet switching or into the atmosphere -- well, unhappily, not much is in the atmosphere anymore -- we lose them.

So meeting the need to get close, that, again, means collaborations we haven't seen. It means that the D.O. is, in some sense, an enabler for NSA, a role that it has started to think of, but needs to do much more.

The second example would be thinking about new technologies: nanotech, biotech, all of those.

What strikes you about those, as you think about their implications for intelligence, is that much like communications technology, they put us in a race between what our adversaries can do with those technologies against us versus what we can do with them against them.

*******************

Article 170

Now, one of the things that was touched upon somewhat by Senator Alexander is some of the effort that you all have in the Office of Science -- it is a very important component of your secretariat. And whether that's in the future gen projects or clean coal power initiative, I'm all for those efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. But the Office of Sciences is very important. About 40 percent, from my research, 40 percent of total funding for basic research in physical sciences is coming out of that department. So it's obviously important. It manages our 10 world class national labs, which are referred to, I think rightfully, as our crown jewels. For our national research infrastructure we're proud to have the Jefferson Lab in Virginia, where they have the -- what they say, they're free electron lasers, now the most powerful, tunable laser in the world. You can say, oh, what in the heck good is that? Well, it helps in nanotechnology. And nanotechnology -- Ron Wyden, a Democrat, a senator, and I led the effort -- about a little over a year ago the president signed our bill on nanotechnology. And it's going to be important in microelectronics health and life sciences. It's also going to be important in materials engineering, where you can get lighter, stronger materials. Would you please share with us, Dr. Bodman, where you see nanotechnology, which I think the next revolution's so important for us as Americans to be in the lead, how do you see your secretariat and the Office of Science assisting in the area of nanotechnology? You answered it in passing on the solar photovoltaic issue to Senator Salazar. If you could elaborate on some more specifics, on nanotech in particular. 

MR. BODMAN: Well, first, if I may say, Senator, I fully subscribe to your views with respect to the role of the Office of Science. The support of the physical sciences in our country has been -- has not grown, and we've seen this enormous growth of seven-, eight-, tenfold in the development of the life sciences, and progress in the life sciences is heavily dependent on progress in the physical sciences. 

And so to ignore one that -- it's great that it's happening in the life science area, but we really need some attention in terms of how we're dealing with the possibilities in the physical sciences. So I would be -- hopefully be viewed as a strong voice in support of science generally, physical sciences in particular, in the administration.

With respect to nanotechnology, there are all manner of things that will have impact on the -- particularly on energy. I mentioned before the possibility of photovoltaic cells, new kinds of batteries, the -- which I think portend all kinds of possibilities. Any place that we're looking for the modification of physics and chemistry at a very molecular level, we're now able to start doing that.


*******************

Article 171

But we all know that a job is what's most important, and so our goal is to get people reconnected back with the workforce as quickly as possible. The economy is producing new jobs. The majority of the new jobs that are being created are higher-skilled, requiring more education, and they're also above-average wages. So there's been a lot of talk that somehow the new jobs that are being created are low- paying jobs. That's simply not true.

Let me tell you some of the sectors that are hiring based on last Friday's unemployment numbers. The sectors that are desperately looking for workers are health care, construction -- which is certainly, again, a high -- they pay above-average wages -- professional and business services, social services, biotechnology, life sciences, nanotechnology, geospatial technology. And even though manufacturing has been in a doldrum since August of 2000, we find that there's something now new called advanced manufacturing.

So the new jobs that are being created, they do pay above-average wages, most of the new jobs. And they require higher skills and more education, which is why the president's No Child Left Behind education reform program is so important to the future competitiveness of our workforce. And that's why the president has asked for $23 billion in 31 different government worker-training programs to help workers get the training and the retraining that they need to access these better- paying, you know, high-paying jobs in high-growth industries. And that's why we at the Department of Labor are so focused on worker training.

*******************

Article 172

The economy is producing new jobs. The majority of the new jobs that are being created are higher skilled, requiring more education. And they are also above average wages.

So there has been a lot of talk that somehow the new jobs that are being created are low-paying jobs. That's simply not true.

Let me tell you some of the sectors that are hiring, based on last Friday's unemployment numbers. The sectors that are desperately looking for workers are health care, construction, which is certainly, again, they pay above-average wages, professional and business services, social services, biotechnology, life sciences, nanotechnology, geospatial technology.

And even though manufacturing has been in a doldrums since August of 2000, we find that there is something now new called advanced manufacturing.

So the new jobs that are being created, they do pay above-average wages. And most of the new jobs -- and they require higher skills and more education, which is why the president's No Child Left Behind education reform program is so important to the future competitiveness of our work force.

*******************

Article 173

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: The fountain of youth. Long before Spanish explorer Ponce de Leon scoured Florida for the fabled fountain of youth, mankind has quested for immortality. Some scientists say we are on the cusp of finding it. Thanks to advances in genetics and nanotechnology, people alive today may live a thousand years or more.

Well, if that does come true, how will Social Security handle those benefits? Forget about the front end, when the benefits kick in. What about the back end, when they stop? 

We'll ask these experts, renowned inventor, author and technology trend forecaster Ray Kurzweil; and professor and author S. Jay Olshansky; and, from off-site, in Colorado, Terry Grossman, M.D., author and longevity clinic director.


*******************

Article 174

S. 15, was introduced in the Senate by Senators Gregg, Frist, Alexander, Warner, Enzi, Sessions, Roberts, and Graham of South Carolina on March 11, 2003. S. 15 was referred to the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. On March 25, 2003, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions reported S. 15 to the Senate (No Written Report).

On March 27, 2003, prior to the introduction of H.R. 2122, the House companion bill to S. 15, the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness and Response and the Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health held a joint oversight hearing entitled "Furthering Public Health: Project BioShield." Testimony was received from: the Honorable Tommy Thompson, Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services; Dr. Michael Friedman, Chief Medical Officer for Biomedical Preparedness, PhRMA; Dr. Gary Noble, Vice President of Medical and Public Affairs, Johnson & Johnson on behalf of AdvaMed; Dr. J. Leighton Read, General Partner, Biotechnology Industry Organization; and Dr. James Baker, Jr., Ruth Dow Doan Professor, Director, Center for Biological Nanotechnology.

H.R. 2122 was introduced in the House on May 15, 2003, by Mr. Tauzin, Mr. Dingell, Mr. Cox, and 12 original cosponsors. H.R. 2122 was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Government Reform and the Select Committee on Homeland Security. The Select Committee retained H.R. 2122 at the Full Committee.

*******************

Article 175

Open:

H. Res. 172 H.R. 1559 Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2003.

H. Res. 219 H.R. 766 Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003.

H. Res. 229 H.R. 1527 National Transportation Safety Board Reauthorization Act of 2003.

H. Res. 256 H.R. 1474 Check Clearing for the 21st Century.

H. Res. 293 H.R. 2555 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations, FY 2004.

H. Res. 298 H.R. 2559 Military Construction Appropriations Act, 2004.

*******************

Article 176

Among the more than 200 recommendations included in the report was a recommendation to pass an organic act for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which would clearly define and codify the agency's mission and functions. Representative Vernon Ehlers of Michigan, the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Environment, Technology, and Standards, introduced such legislation and held a hearing on it.

Recognizing that innovation is the key to U.S. economic success, the Committee also focused its efforts on strengthening the U.S. research enterprise and American industry. In December 2003, President Bush signed into law Chairman Boehlert's 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, which authorized a better funded and coordinated interagency program in nanotechnology an emerging field of science that the National Science Foundation estimates will be a $1 trillion industry within the next decade.

The President also signed into law the Department of Energy High-End Computing Revitalization Act, which was introduced by Energy Subcommittee Chairman Judy Biggert of Illinois. The Act will foster research to improve U.S. supercomputers and make them more available to U.S. researchers.

*******************

Article 177

Full Committee Oct. 16, 2003, markup session (p. 13-22) on H. Res. 395 (text, p. 19-21), to recognize the importance of chemistry and to support the goals and ideals of National Chemistry Week, to be observed Oct. 19-25, 2003, to promote chemistry education and enhance appreciation of the chemical sciences. Resolution was favorably reported.
 
Full Committee May 1, 2003, markup session (p. 23-123) on H.R. 766 (text, sectional analysis, p. 24-29; amendments, p. 39-118 passim), the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003, to authorize an interagency program to support nanoscience research and nanotechnology development. Amended bill was favorably reported.
 
Subcom on Environment, Technology, and Standards Mar. 13, 2003, markup session (p. 125-143) on H.R. 1081 (text, sectional analysis, p. 132-141), the Aquatic Invasive Species Research Act, to amend the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 to establish R&D and demonstration programs to prevent, control, and eradicate non-native, invasive aquatic species. Bill was favorably reported.

*******************

Article 178

But this is the second in our series on science and technology, the nexus of science and technology and foreign policy. We at the council have decided that we really want to devote some energy and attention to those issues. And some of you were here when Shirley Jackson and Benjamin Wu talked about whether the United States was losing its competitive edge to China and India. This is our second in the series tonight, which we're looking forward to. 

And on January 19th we'll be talking about the foreign policy applications of nanotechnology. And I learned from Laurie just today that in fact there are health policy implications as well. Nanotechnology may allow, with a single drop of blood, to diagnose as many as 60 infectious diseases. So we want to look at nanotechnology and the foreign policy implications.

But I thank you for being here and for supporting the series. And feel free to contact me with ideas that you have for more topics along these lines. Thank you very much.

MS. DENTZER: Thank you, Nancy. And good evening to all of you.

*******************

Article 179

And then there's the question about Americans going into science and the U.S. dependence on foreign students, which in and of itself is not a problem, but if they can't get into the United States because of visa restrictions or if they're going to universities in Canada, New Zealand or Australia, then that, long term, could be a problem for the United States.

The second variable is this rise of innovation in Asia. And here I think across the region you see innovation as a national priority. You see all the countries increasing their spending on R&D across the board. And you see very focused spending in nanotech, biotech and information technology, three areas where the governments of Korea, Japan, China all think the next wave of innovation is going to be.

But in addition to this top-down focus which is traditionally how we think of development in Asian states, there is an increasing awareness that silicon valley is what drove innovation; that is, small firms, private entrepreneurs, venture capital. And so all these countries are aggressively trying to recreate that locally. The success has been mixed. It's hard to have VC when the stock market doesn't really work like it does in China, but it's clear that that's a goal that they want to go in. If you see about the debate about, you know, accounting for stock options, you see a lot of the American CEOs say, "Well, look, China's moving toward stock options, should we be moving away from it?"

*******************

Article 180

It is both natural and significant that Japan should participate in the emerging global conversation about the future of the international order:

Japan is America's key ally in the Pacific. You have the world's second-largest economy, responsible for nearly 12 percent of global GDP and almost 6 percent of global merchandise trade. Your financial and equity markets are important to international stability. You are the world's second-largest donor of official development assistance. You have a highly-capable military that has contributed to a variety of humanitarian, reconstruction, and peacekeeping missions that have helped to keep and support stability around the world, not least in Iraq and in support of operations in Afghanistan. Japan also is investing in many pace-setting technologies, including nanotechnology and renewable energy, that will form the pillars of tomorrow's international economy.

In short, by building on the skills of its enormously talented citizens, Japan's leaders are fostering the vision of a more global Japan.

*******************

Article 181

During the '90s, this was the idea, but unfortunately, some others were dragging their feet, and because of political reasons, or what have you, they didn't materialize, the cooperation. So we had no choice. Israel had no choice but to go alone. So we are now -- our strategy is to build, and we are already in the process of building a major plant near Ashkelon on the Mediterranean. Probably there will be another one further north from that. And we will have to desalinate water for ourselves, and hopefully in the future for others, because it can be then hooked up certainly to Palestinians, to Jordan, and even beyond. I think this is the way to go.

Right now -- if we go further, deeper into that -- right now it's not the most cost-effective way -- it's still -- to produce one cubic meter, which is, I think, a thousand gallons of fresh water, it costs about between 50 and 60 cents. It's still higher than other means, like bringing water from other areas. But I believe that with technology progress, we can reduce this substantially. And many believe, many scientists I talk to believe that nanotechnology -- which many see as a technology for the future, with maturity expected in about, I don't know, seven, eight, 10 years -- that nanotechnology can be applied for desalination and can lower substantially the cost. So even on that issue, I am optimistic.

Q Has anyone taken the place of Saddam Hussein in the amount of money or the publicity that he got for providing money to the families of suicide-bombing terrorists? 

AMB. AYALON: Yes, I would say it's pretty much the Iranians and the Hezbollah through their -- the Iranians through their conduit in Lebanon, the Hezbollah, are financing now most of these terrorist activities of Tanzim Fatah, which is Arafat's group, and also Hamas and others. And that includes also taking care of the families of those suicide bombers.

*******************

Article 182

And we will have to desalinate water for ourselves and hopefully in the future for others, because it can be then hooked up certainly to Palestinians, to Jordan and even beyond. I think this is the way to go.

Right now, if we go further, deeper into that, right now it's not the most cost effective way. Still, to produce one cubic meter, which is I think 1,000 gallons of freshwater, it costs between 50 and 60 cents. It's still higher than other means like bringing water from other areas.

But I believe that with technology progress, we can reduce this substantially. And many scientists I talk to believe that nanotechnology, which many see it as a technology for the future, with maturity expected in about -- I don't know -- seven, eight, 10 years, that nanotechnology can be applied for desalination and can lower substantially the cost.

AYALON: So even on that issue, I'm optimistic.

QUESTION: Has anyone taken the place of Saddam Hussein in the amount of money or the publicity that he got for providing money to the families of the suicide bombing terrorists?

*******************

Article 183

On one hand, he fights for corporate interests at the expense of the middle class. On the other hand, he has an extreme political agenda that slows instead of advances science.

It is wrong to take hope away from people. Hope is what gave us the polio vaccine and other breakthroughs in medicine. It is wrong to tell scientists that they can't cross the frontiers of new knowledge. It is wrong morally and it is wrong economically. When I am president, we will change this policy -- and we will lead the world in stem cell research.

From nanotechnology to artificial intelligence, we know where the next generation of high-paying jobs will come from: jobs that pay, on average, 70 percent more than other jobs. Yet, George Bush has been so obsessed with cutting taxes for the wealthy that our investments in creating those jobs are dying on the vine.

This president has proposed cutting the National Science Foundation budget for research and development, cutting the EPA research budget and cutting the Veteran's Affairs research budget. He's proposed cutting the Manufacturing Extension Program that business uses to develop new processes by 90 percent. This week, we learned that America has fallen to 13th in the world in broadband coverage. Broadband is critical to our long-term growth, but this president has proposed cutting the Agriculture Department's Rural Broadband budget, which brings the Internet to America's small towns and rural communities.

*******************

Article 184

Various computational scientists have said that discovery through simulation requires sustained speeds starting at 50 teraflops to examine a subset of challenging problems in accelerator science and technology, astrophysics, biology, chemistry and catalysis, climate prediction, combustion, computational fluid dynamics, computational structural and systems biology, environmental molecular science, fusion energy science, geosciences, groundwater protection, high energy physics, materials science and nanoscience, nuclear physics, soot formation and growth, and more.

The Office of Science also is a leader in research efforts to capitalize on the promise of nanoscale science and biotechnology. This revolution in science promises a revolution in industry.

To develop systems capable of meeting the challenges faced by DOE, universities, and industry, the Office of Science invests in several areas of computation: high-performance computing, large-scale networks, and the software that enables scientists to use these resources as tools for discovery. The FY 2005 President's Request for the Office of Science includes $204 million for ASCR for IT R&D and approximately $20 million in the other Offices to support the development of the next generation of scientific simulation software for SC mission applications.

*******************

Article 185

NSF has completed the planned 5-year priority for Information Technology Research [ITR] within Computer and Information Science and Engineering [CISE], yet the ITR program has also increased our understanding of computing, communications, and information systems as well as the areas of large-scale networking, new high-end architectures, high-data-volume instruments, and information management. To continue this fundamental research, the Committee has provided $190,000,000 to ITR within CISE.

NSF has been the lead agency for the National Nanotechnology Initiative, and will continue to provide critical and fundamental understanding to this emerging technology. The Committee fully supports the funding level requested for nanotechnology within the fiscal year 2005 budget request. The Committee believes that the recommended level of funding will allow the Foundation to continue to be the leader for this initiative in a field that is still in its beginning stages. In the past, novel technologies have suffered because of misconceptions of the public. This has led to mistrust and confusion over the benefits that such research can provide. NSF is encouraged to make sure such difficulties are minimized so that this technology can continue to provide the potential breakthroughs needed by materials research and health researchers.

The Committee recognizes the significant infrastructure needs of our Nation's research institutions, especially for smaller research and minority institutions that have not traditionally benefited from Federal programs. The Committee is especially concerned about the larger schools receiving a disproportionate share of scarce Federal resources from indirect cost reimbursements to fund infrastructure needs. As a result, the Committee recommends the Foundation's Major Research Instrumentation [MRI] account address the infrastructure needs of these research institutions. NSF is encouraged to continue to target funds to assist minority serving institutions, which tend to be underrepresented.

*******************

Article 186

Within the funds made available for Electronics and Electrical Engineering, $7,000,000 is for the Office of Law Enforcement Standards [OLES], of which $4,000,000 is to fund the highest priority homeland security research projects. Projects managed by OLES are to be coordinated with the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security. In addition, $1,000,000 is for the nanoelectronics initiative which supports the development of semiconductor technologies.

Within the funds made available for Manufacturing Engineering, $2,000,000 is for the nanomanufacturing initiative enabling critical infrastructural measurements and standards for the developing nanotechnology industry.

Within the funds made available for Physics, $3,000,000 is for quantum computing. The Committee strongly supports NIST's Nobel Laureates' efforts in this area. The Committee believes their leadership could provide a revolutionary breakthrough in computing technology just as the transistor did over 50 years ago.

Within the funds made available for Materials Science and Engineering, $6,000,000 is provided for upgrades to the National Center for Neutron Research in order to meet the increasing demands for this national scientific resource.

*******************

Article 187

Myelodysplasia and Myeloproliferative Disorders. The Committee recognizes NCI's support for a new research initiative in Myeloproliferative Disorders [MPDs), which evolved from a recent conference involving the Institute and NHLBI. MPDs and Myelodysplasia [MDS] are chronic diseases of bone marrow cells that can develop into acute leukemia. The Committee encourages NCI and NHLBI to bring together scientific and clinical experts in these fields to explore collaborative and crosscutting research mechanisms to further this research agenda. The Committee also urges NCI to utilize the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results [SEER] Program to collect data on the incidence and distribution of these diseases.

Nanosystems Biology. The Committee encourages NCI and the Office of the NIH Director to support a collaborative effort to bringing together nanotechnology, systems biology and molecular imaging to examine the molecular basis of cancer. Initial efforts have shown that cancers such as breast cancer are not a single disease, but may encompass many different diseases, when examined at the molecular level. Many clinical trials of new drugs are now considered a failure if only 10 percent of patients benefit, yet the 10 percent may represent a specific type of the disease, where the drug may be 100 percent effective. Bringing these three disciplines together may allow researchers to identify specific sub-types of cancer and to better target new interventions. Successful results of such an effort could lead to a molecular classification of many types of cancer and to targeted molecular treatments for molecular-specific diseases.

Neurofibromatosis. The Committee commends NCI for conducting phase II clinical trials of NF1 patients with plexiform neurofibromas. The Committee is concerned about recent large drops in funding for NF research, and recognizing NF's connection to many of the most common forms of human cancer, the Committee encourages NCI to substantially increase its NF research portfolio in such areas as further development of animal models, natural history studies, therapeutic experimentation, and clinical trials. The Committee is mindful of NF's rapid movement toward clinical research and encourages NCI to aggressively pursue clinical/translational research while still maintaining a solid basic research portfolio.


*******************

Article 188

Low cost carbon fiber production technology, University of Tennessee

500,000

Nanostructured catalysts for hydrogen fuel cells (CATV UA)

1,000,000

National Bio-Terrorism Civilian Medical Response Center, PA

750,000

NDSU Transit Center for Small Urban Areas, ND

400,000

Pawtucket train depot rehabilitation initiative, RI

235,000

*******************

Article 189

Within the amounts provided, $6,000,000 is for continued planning and design activities for the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON). The National Research Council's (NRC) review of the NEON program, while endorsing a NEON-like concept, found that further refinement and more detailed implementation plans were necessary to maximum the benefit from this investment. NSF is expected to consider and incorporate the Council's recommendations as it continues planning and design activities, particularly the NRC's recommendation to strengthen partnerships and collaborations with other Federal agencies. The Committee believes such collaborations are critical to maximize the use of existing observatory networks in order to avoid redundancy of Federal research dollars and reduce the overall cost of the NEON project.

From within the Engineering, Mathematical and Physical Sciences, and Computer and Information Science and Engineering Directorates and the National Nanotechnology Initiative, the Committee remains concerned that researchers are reaching the physical limits of current complementary metal oxide semiconductor process technology and that this will have significant implications for continued productivity growth in the information economy. The Committee commends NSF's examination of the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors and its initiation of the Silicon Nanoelectronics and Beyond program and encourages NSF to consider increasing research support, where feasible, through this program.

The Committee directs NSF to issue guidance to all directorates, not later than December 15, 2004, that research support grant applications from all Smithsonian Institution scientists are fully eligible to compete for NSF funding and are to be given fair consideration in the merit review process.

*******************

Article 190

We could be paying attention to the construction of new cities and the design of new architecture and the systematic application of energy-efficient concepts, so that we substantially reduce our energy footprint, and a lot else. This isn't a lecture about energy; it's just a "for instance" towards the end of my comments.

If you look at health care -- and my colleagues naturally, at least at first, leaped to nanotechnology and to genetics, which could, in a 15- or 20-year time frame, truly revolutionize the costs of advanced medical care, but we settle on something much more prosaic, which is the systematic application of energy -- of information technology in order to achieve major changes and reductions in the processing costs in the medical delivery -- in the medical/health care delivery system. The estimates are quite high in terms of how much of the money that you spend on medicine is actually wasted on moving paper at this time. And any of you who have ever tried to get your documents from Specialist A to Specialist B might wonder why, at this point in the 21st century, you're hand-carrying the damn things.

Have you noticed, for example, that you receive more insightful correspondence by e-mail from your automobile dealer about the health of your automobile than you do from your physician about your health? Well, there are economic reasons for that, and they need to be dealt with, because otherwise these transactions will stay in the last century instead of moving into the 21st, where we are.

*******************

Article 191

The cutting edge of the transatlantic agenda, in fact, transcends current international mechanisms. Even a successful Doha global trade round, for example, will not address such pressing "deep integration" issues affecting the European and American economies as competition policies, standardized corporate governance, more effective regulatory cooperation, tax and other issues. Nor will it address issues raised by European and American scientists and entrepreneurs, who are pushing the frontiers of human discovery in such fields as genetics, nanotechnology and electronic commerce where there are neither global rules nor transatlantic mechanisms to sort out the complex legal, ethical and commercial tradeoffs posed by such innovation. In such areas the difficulty is less that there are different "European" or "American" answers to these challenges and more that neither side has even sorted out the appropriate questions, much less the answers.

*******************

Article 192

This committee did this, directly and indirectly, in the 1980s. We nearly lost the semiconductor industry then. And it was a combination -- and I stress that, a combination of new funding, the SEMATECH program of support for the semiconductor trade agreement which stopped some unfair trade practices and signals to the investment community that we wanted this industry, which helped them reinvest and work into different areas like microprocessors that helped us compete. 

But my point is -- that's an encouraging point -- we can do this and we've done it in the past, which addresses it, without getting into an essentially directed dirigiste policy. We don't need a French style industrial policy in order to compete. But we do need to recognize the gaps in our current policy. The nanotechnology initiatives, tax depreciation, recognizing what the rest of the world is doing in aerospace and in semis is a first step. And I would encourage you, Mr. Chairman, to bring some industry representatives and help answer the questions of some of your colleagues.

I think it's incredibly important that they have actually signaled that they're concerned and that they're looking for a policy response. And some of the states, like New York and Texas, have stepped up to the plate to try and retain those industries. But if I could leave just one thought here, there's not a lot of time. These industries are moving very quickly. When we started this report, we were focused on Taiwan, two years ago and Taiwan is now being bled dry by mainland China in this area. We had to redraft the report at the end because it had shifted that quickly.

*******************

Article 193

As a concrete example, the recent Academy report on challenges facing the U.S. semiconductor industry recommended more support for the cooperative, university-based Focus Center Research Program. The financing for this program is relatively limited; the potential benefits are large, and the program already has a positive track record. Reinforcing this type of successful government-industry partnership is key. 11.Enhanced investments in nanotechnologies are another key step. It is important for the U.S. economy to build capacity in nanotechnologies, but commercialization is also essential. Programs such as SBIR and ATP, to encourage their commercialization, are key ingredients for a successful U.S. policy to anchor this tremendously promising technology in the U.S. economy. Support for research is not enough. Support for early-stage commercialization is also required.

*******************

Article 194

I mean, this committee did this directly and indirectly in the 1980s. We nearly lost the semiconductor industry then, and it was a combination -- and I stress that -- of you funding the SEMATECH program, of support for the semiconductor trade agreement which stopped some unfair trade practices, and signals to the investment community that we wanted this industry, which helped them reinvest and work into different areas like microprocessors that helped us compete.

But my point is that's an encouraging point. We can do this, and we've done it in the past, which addresses it, without getting into an essentially directed deregist (ph) policy. We don't need a French- style industrial policy in order to compete, but we do need to recognize the gaps in our current policy.

The nanotechnology initiatives, tax depreciation, recognizing just what the rest of the world is doing in aerospace and in semis is a first step, and I would encourage you, Mr. Chairman, to bring some industry representatives here and help answer the questions of some of your colleagues. I think it's incredibly important that they have actually signaled that they're concerned and that they're looking for a policy response, and some of the states, like New York and Texas, have stepped up to the plate to try and retain those industries.

If I could leave just one thought here, there's not a lot of time. These industries are moving very quickly. When we started this report, we were focused on Taiwan two years ago, and Taiwan is now being bled dry by mainland China in this area. We had to redraft the report at the end because it had shifted that quickly. So this is not a three-year window of opportunity. It's much shorter than that.

*******************

Article 195

The Impact of New Technologies

The importance of computing research in enabling the new economy is well documented. The resulting advances in information technology have led to significant improvements in product design, development and distribution for American industry, provided instant communications for people worldwide, and enabled new scientific disciplines such as bioinformatics and nanotechnology that show great promise in improving a whole range of health, security, and communications technologies. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan has said that the growing use of information technology has been the distinguishing feature of this "pivotal period in American economic history." Recent analysis suggests that the remarkable growth the U.S. experienced between 1995 and 2000 was spurred by an increase in productivity enabled almost completely by factors related to IT. "IT drove the U.S. productivity revival [from 1995-2000]," according to Harvard economist Dale Jorgenson..Information technology has also changed the conduct of research. Innovations in computing and networking technologies are enabling scientific discovery across every scientific discipline - from mapping the human brain to modeling climatic change. Researchers, faced with research problems that are ever more complex and interdisciplinary in nature, are using IT to collaborate across the globe, visualize large and complex datasets, and collect and manage massive amounts of data.

The Ecosystem that Gives Birth to New Technologies

*******************

Article 196

NIST is at the forefront of this new age. The information technology research at NIST is focused on building the trust and confidence in today's and tomorrow's systems. Trust and confidence covers the range of IT systems: advances in modeling and simulation to complement the advances in the physical sciences; secure, robust, quality software; agile, resilient, robust networks that continue to operate under catastrophic conditions; and integrity, availability, interoperability and reliability of the systems, data and networks. We have a unique collection of scientists working collaboratively from computer scientists to chemists, electrical and mechanical engineers and physicists striving to meet the challenge of trust and confidence in IT in the nanoscale revolution and beyond.

I would now like to mention some highlights from our major Information Technology program areas which will give you a flavor of the wide array of expertise and effort resident at NIST:

*******************

Article 197

The value of today's research in the NITRD Program can only be based on prediction, and "predicting is difficult, especially about the future."11 Nonetheless, if we extrapolate from the past, we can be confident that today's investments will have large payoff. The NITRD Program is working in areas such as

- Improving the quality and reliability of software

- Improving the security of operating systems, applications, and networks

- Making it easier and more productive for humans to interact with computer systems, including facilitating access by individuals with disabilities.

- Managing resources distributed over the Internet

- Developing and applying computer modeling and simulation to fields as diverse as medicine, manufacturing, energy, environment, climate and weather, and nanotechnology

- Detecting and responding to natural or man-made threats

- Managing information-intensive dynamic systems

- Supporting life-long learning

*******************

Article 198

Mr. Sherman. But if you will yield.

Chairman Boehlert. I would certainly yield.

Mr. Sherman. My original amendment could have been viewed as a threat to research, since it indicated we didn't authorize certain research. My goal now is, as we did with the nanotechnology bill, to require that the agencies that are funding this research also fund studies of the legal and ethical implications. So, there is no bar to further research. And just as we did not bar the development of nanotechnology, but rather, required a look at the societal implications.

Chairman Boehlert. Well, thank you very much for one, indicating that you probably were unlikely to call for a roll call vote. That shows you are considerate of other Members, both sides, time and effort. Two, I think everything we should do should consider societal impact, ethical impact. So I will be glad to work with you directly, have staff talk this thing through, and see if we can't accomplish some of your original intent to focus on the issue, without being proscriptive and preventing any research going forward absent such a study.

Mr. Sherman. That is fair enough, and I think our work on the nanotechnology bill achieved that goal, and had overwhelming support on the

Chairman Boehlert. Well, we called for studies.

Mr. Sherman. Right.

Chairman Boehlert. But absent the studies, we didn't halt anything.

*******************

Article 199

National Manufacturing Agenda

Mr. Udall offered an amendment to establish a President's Manufacturing Council a concept endorsed in the National Council on Advanced Manufacturing report, "Industry Views Toward a Comprehensive Strategy to Address the Challenges to U.S. Manufacturers." Mr. Udall's amendment would have established a multi-dimensional Council comprised of manufacturers, professional associations and labor unions with a majority of members working in manufacturing, and representatives of research and academic institutions. The Council would be charged with developing a National Manufacturing Strategy and would have broad latitude in assessing how federal efforts could be integrated into the Strategy. For example, R&D initiatives such as nanotechnology, green chemistry, alternative energy, and information technology will clearly impact our manufacturing base and in turn employment opportunities for all Americans. Under the Udall amendment, the composition of the Council would mirror a provision in H.R. 3598 as introduced by Mr. Ehlers. The Ehlers' substitute, however, did nothing more than authorize the existence of the Manufacturing Advisory Council named by Secretary Evans the day before the mark-up. The Administration's Council is limited to representatives of the manufacturing sector. We don't think it is a good idea, nor did Mr. Ehlers when he introduced H.R. 3598.

Chairman Boehlert opposed the Udall amendment for the standard reason because the Administration would object. Representative Udall then offered a substitute amendment which inserted the provisions of the original Ehlers' bill on the composition of the Council. Mr. Ehlers opposed this amendment his own language on the grounds that "we have worked out this arrangement with the Administration." Be that as it may, we feel that the balanced composition proposed in the original Ehlers' bill was a much better idea.


*******************

Article 200

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES

83,508

87,008

G6+3,500

Nanoparticle Materials Research

G6+1,500

Neural Engineering Research

G6+1,500

Nanoscience Research

G6+3,000

Remote Sensing Research

G6+1,000

Multifunctional Materials for Naval Structures

G6+2,500

University Research Instrumentation Program Growth

6,000

*******************

Article 201

At the same time, a spatially aware and technically savvy public is demanding government services that fully utilize geospatial data and services.

They expect on line access to information about their property and public resources. They certainly expect an ambulance to find their house. It should be noted that the increased reliance on spatial data and services led the Department of Labor to forecast that job growth in geotechnology will soon rival that of nanotechnology and biotechnology.

It is important to address the specific issues relevant to this hearing. These issues focus on whether the Federal government is on the right track with respect to its role in the coordination and utilization of geospatial data. The Mapping Science Committee believes that last year the Federal Government made an important mid-stream adjustment and the path is much better marked than it was previously. We are pleased to see an articulation of the distinct but interrelated roles of the FGDC, The National Map and Geospatial One Stop. This model of a.three legged stool appears to cover the major bases in a coherent manner. We believe that the role of the FGDC is clear and that the organization has served as a valuable focal point for coordination of federal activities. We are particularly pleased with the FGDC role in pushing the importance of spatial meta data. This effort provides a critical tool for discovering, distributing and sharing data.
*******************

Article 202

- developed many of the computational technologies for DNA sequencing that have made possible the unraveling of the human genetic code.

Various computational scientists have said that discovery through simulation requires sustained speeds starting at 50 teraflops to examine a subset of challenging problems in accelerator science and technology, astrophysics, biology, chemistry and catalysis, climate prediction, combustion, computational fluid dynamics, computational structural and systems biology, environmental molecular science, fusion energy science, geosciences, groundwater protection, high energy physics, materials science and nanoscience, nuclear physics, soot formation and growth, and more. The Office of Science also is a leader in research efforts to capitalize on the promise of nanoscale science and biotechnology. This revolution in science promises a revolution in industry. * * * To develop systems capable of meeting the challenges faced by DOE, universities, and industry, the Office of Science invests in several areas of computation: high- performance computing, large-scale networks, and the software that enables scientists to use these resources as tools for discovery. The FY 2005 President's Request for the Office of Science includes $204 million for ASCR for IT R&D and approximately $20 million in the other Offices to support the development of the next generation of scientific simulation software for SC mission applications. As a part of this portfolio the Office of Science supports basic research in applied mathematics and the computer science needed to underpin advances in high performance computers and networks for science. 

*******************

Article 203

In similar fashion, high-performance computing can open up avenues of research for pharmaceuticals, chemicals, industrial materials, and a host of other areas vital to the health of our citizens and the strength of our economy. Indeed, as I noted earlier, we have already reached the point at which computation is integral to research in virtually every field of endeavor.

The two principal tools of scientific discovery -- theory and experiment -- have been joined by a third: modeling and simulation. As a nation, we have done a great job in investing in the health sciences. I want to thank Senator Alexander and Senator Bingaman for their leadership in calling for a comparable investment in the physical sciences, which underpin many of the remarkable advances in the life sciences achieved during the last century. The importance of high-performance computing to both the physical and the life sciences cannot be overstated: the convergence of nanoscale science and technology, computing and information technology, and biology at the "nano-info-bio" nexus affords remarkable opportunities for discovery that we cannot afford to miss out on. It is now generally accepted that half of our economic growth over the past few decades can be traced directly to advances in science and technology.

High-performance computing played a critical role in these advances, and it will continue to do so as we extend the frontiers of science. An investment in high-performance computing would enable the Department of Energy to move forward with plans to attain the ultrascale scientific computing capability needed to realize its goals in nanoscience, biology, fusion science, physics, chemistry, climate simulation and prediction, and related fields. In summary, these investments would make it possible for America to regain our leadership role in high- performance computing and lay the groundwork for addressing some of the nation's greatest scientific challenges.


*******************

Article 204

Departmental program offices face four competing priorities for funding: maintaining and operating existing facilities and research instruments, investing in new facilities and research instruments, paying for research and production work done at the DOE laboratories and plants, and funding research work done outside of the DOE complex. Making the difficult trade-offs between these competing priorities is not easy, but without a methodological approach to such trade-offs, a strategic or facility plan is a mere wish list unconstrained by fiscal realities and other competing demands. The Department needs to prepare a comprehensive department-wide five-year budget plan that will make explicit the choices made between competing priorities such as science research versus nuclear nonproliferation versus environmental cleanup. Preparation of such a comprehensive five-year plan will no doubt be challenging for the Department, but the challenge is not fundamentally different from that facing the Department of Defense (DoD), which regularly produces and updates its Future Year Defense Plan (FYDP) to reflect future resource requirements among the various Services in DoD.

Inherent in producing five-year budget plans for major programs and the entire Department is the need to define missions and activities, and therefore the future budget requirements, of the various laboratories. The large multi-program labs (i.e., Argonne, Brookhaven, Lawrence Berkeley, Lawrence Livermore, Los Alamos, Oak Ridge, and Pacific Northwest) have been very aggressive in pursuing a wide range of new missions and funding sources first climate change, then genomics, then nanotechnology, now advanced computing and proteinomics. And these labs continue to jockey for position at the homeland security funding trough.

The Committee recognizes the vast pool of talent present in the labs, and the fact that such talent can be brought to bear on a wide range of problems facing the Nation. However, the Committee also believes that such talent requires more active guidance and supervision from the Headquarters program offices to be sure the labs are using DOE resources to tackle the right problems. In times of limited funding, the question can no longer be "What can the labs do?" but must instead be "What should the labs do?" Answering this latter question should not be left up to the contractors running the labs; it must be answered by the Federal managers in the Department. The five-year plans prepared by the major program offices, and the comprehensive five-year plan for the Department, should include business plans for each of these laboratories. These business plans should include a clear statement of the primary mission of each laboratory as such mission relates to each lab's lead program office(s), a clear statement of secondary missions to support other DOE program offices and other Federal agencies, and a five-year plan identifying the research, facilities, and resource requirements necessary to fulfill these primary and secondary missions.

*******************

Article 205

-Influenza viruses from southern Asia and from across North America are carried to Alaska inside migrating ducks, and on the duck nesting grounds across Alaska, these viruses from different geographic origins have a chance to exchange genes and become very virulent to people. The bird flu pandemic in 1918 killed 20- 40 million people; Alaska is expected to be the source of the next outbreaks. Field biologists at the University of Alaska are already collecting many samples of the bird viruses and sending them to the CDC and USDA for analysis. The University of Alaska Fairbanks is the home of the Arctic Region Supercomputing Center. Computational biologists in Fairbanks are working with colleagues at UCLA, Los Alamos, CDC in Atlanta, and the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology to analyze the genes of the influenza virus and thus to understand why the 1918 virus became so deadly so suddenly and how the viral genes are turned on and turned off. Other research is proceeding at the University on infectious agents like that for tularemia - a Category A pathogen of the highest national priority for research against bioterrorism. Detecting such pathogens by microsensors is a potential area of expertise for our recently established Center for Nanotechnology. -In Nebraska, which ranks first in the nation in commercial livestock slaughter and fourth in corn production, the University of Nebraska's (UN) Center for Biosecurity was established in 2002 to focus on minimizing agro-terrorism/environmental threats. UN researchers have expertise in the detection of pathogens in food processing, remote sensing of biological changes and threats to food crops, safeguarding water supplies, tracking the spread of disease in the environment, and decision support for risk management for agricultural systems. -In Nevada, where the state's unique tourism centers results in unique Homeland Security issues that effect travelers from across the world, the Desert Research Institute (DRI) research expertise can be applied to air- and water-safety threats, bioterrorism/chemical terrorism, infrastructure security issues related to bridges and buildings, and threats to microwave and optical communications. - In Maine, which has 611 miles of border with Canada and almost 3,500 miles of open shoreline, the University of Maine, the Bigelow Lab, and the state's other research institutions have existing ocean observing systems and modeling systems that provide real time observations. The expertise is already being used to study optimal security perimeter strategies, including border management through the coordination of various agencies from both the U.S. and Canada. -Kansas has considerable expertise at the intersection of the biological and information sciences. For example, researchers have developed predictive models of the spread of emerging diseases, the spread of potential bioterrorism agents, and biological phenomenon in the environment. They have developed sensors for biodefense and biomedical devices, modeling algorithms for the identification of unknown protein structures, ground-based sampling networks for monitoring and analyzing air borne chemicals, and best practices for responding to threat incidences in the agricultural community. -Clemson University has expertise in the development of polymer nanoparticles for the detection of bioterrorism agents in agricultural products. Other expertise exists within a historically funded wireless communications program having defense and homeland security applications. The Arnold School of Public Health at the University of South Carolina (USC) has one of nineteen national Bioterrorism Centers that is in active partnership with the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control and other security agencies. USC and the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) have accomplishments in advanced technologies for biosurveillance and risk mitigation for coastal resources. MUSC also has significant capacity in novel methods for the development of vaccines. -The state of Mississippi's comprehensive educational institutions all conduct research and technology development in areas of interest to Homeland Security. From remote sensing and defense related research at Jackson State University, engineering and protection of agricultural and forestry resources at Mississippi State University, polymer science and marine science expertise at the University of Southern Mississippi, to 4th amendment, space and aviation law issues, and acoustic sensor technologies at the University of Mississippi, the state holds these and numerous other research capabilities available to assist DHS and other agencies in accomplishing the mission of protecting and preventing our homeland from terrorism. Mississippi's research universities also partner with federal installations within the state including NASA's Stennis Space Center, the Navy's Oceanographic and Meteorological Command, and the Army's Engineering and Research Development Center to further the nation's research and technology development. -In West Virginia, which is adjacent to our Nation's Capitol, West Virginia University (WVU) is recognized globally as the leading institution in biometrics research and identification authentification technology. WVU's Biometric Knowledge Center collaborates with other universities and more than a dozen federal agencies or facilities including the FBI, NSF, Defense and Homeland Security to provide cutting- edge research and security advances. At Marshall University, Homeland Security is bolstered by transportation, forensic sciences, and DNA tracing research targeting water supply security along the largest number of state stream miles in the eastern United States.

*******************

Article 206

So we've streamlined the tax reporting requirements for small businesses, spared them from more than 50 million hours of unproductive work. We're going to continue that effort. Small businesses should be able to spend their time becoming growing businesses, not filling out useless paperwork to satisfy the bureaucracy in Washington.

(APPLAUSE)

As you know well, here at NexTech, a healthy growing economy also depends on affordable, reliable supplies of energy. We need to pass sound energy legislation to promote the kind of clean, efficient technology you're helping to produce. There's a lot of promise in fields like nanotechnology and hydrogen energy. We need to maintain American leadership in those areas by funding aggressive research development. Our administration has doubled federal funding for nanotechnology research and development. The President also recently signed the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, which authorizes four years of additional research and development funding. We also need to promote conservation and new domestic production. Had we started the environmentally safe development of ANWR 15 years ago when it was first proposed, that oil would now be arriving by pipeline at the rate of up to a million barrels a day. For the sake of economic security and national security, Congress needs to pass legislation to make America less dependent on foreign sources of energy.

(APPLAUSE)

Our economy also needs lawsuit abuse reform. Junk and frivolous lawsuits can ruin an honest business. They put people out of work. They clog the courts, delaying justice for people with real legal grievances. It's a lot easier for America's entrepreneurs to hire new workers if they don't have to keep hiring lawyers.

*******************

Article 207

But then I went from there back to the White House, where I had a meeting with President Bush and the Prime Minister of Denmark, who was visiting, Prime Minister Rasmussen. And then from there, I went back to my office at the State Department and when I got back there, I had to give an Indian interview, an interview for Indian television. New Delhi Television Network wanted to know what I thought about the new Indian elections. And after talking about that for a while, it was time to come here for the best part of my day, to be with young people again, to be with young people who have excelled.

But I can't come to a graduation like this, I can't speak to a group like this without thinking of my own high school experience. Believe it or not, it is 50 years. (Laughter.) Give me a break. I graduated from high school a little over 50 years ago. And I'm telling you, in my high school in the Bronx, in New York City -- (cheers) -- thank you, love. Give it up for the Bronx. (Applause.) It was not like this high school, because I've heard all these awards about nanoscience this, and nanotechnology that, and they studied HIV/AIDS. I think my paper was, what did I do last summer, or something like that.

But I still remember fondly my days in high school. And when they told me I was going to have the privilege of speaking to this class, I went and got my high school yearbook out. Now, you all got to fix these folks so that next year's class has a high school yearbook. We're working on that. (Applause.)

*******************

Article 208

Smart responsive nanocomposites

The budget request contained $75.1 million in PE 61103A for University Research Initiatives, but included no funding for smart responsive nanocomposites (SRN).

The committee is aware that there is a multitude of design possibilities for nanostructured, nature-simulating materials capable of responding to outside stimuli.

The committee recommends $79.1 million in PE 61103A, an increase of $4.0 million to develop a smart responsive nanostructured material, which combines detection of toxins and alarm-release with self-cleaning and self-repairing material.

Space and missile defense architecture analysis program

The budget request contained $91.7 million in PE 63327A for Army air and missile defense systems engineering, but included no funding for the Army Space and Missile Defense (ASMD) architecture analysis program.

*******************

Article 209

Vision/Hearing Loss

Two Rehabilitation Research Centers currently focus on low vision. The Atlanta center has recently narrowed its focus to rehabilitation for aging veterans with vision loss. Their work includes establishing outcome measures for blind rehabilitation therapies and incorporating orientation and mobility techniques into diverse physical environments. The Boston center brings nanotechnology expertise to the science of developing retinal prostheses for persons with age-related macular degeneration. Investigators are committed to restoring vision, minimizing invasive surgery, and optimizing ophthalmic care.

Investigators at the Portland center have contributed to current guidelines associated with early detection of hearing loss due to ototoxicity and are respected for their therapeutic work in ameliorating tinnitus. Other areas of work include establishing parameters for hearing aid use and developing methods of creating public awareness for preventing hearing loss.

Mobility

At the Human Research Engineering Laboratories in Pittsburgh, investigators are dedicated to transferring research findings into devices and clinical practices, which serve the mobility needs of veterans. Wheelchair manufacturers, government agencies, and consumer organizations utilize Pittsburgh's wheelchair-testing program to improve wheelchair design. Currently, investigators in collaboration with the Atlanta research center, are developing a robotic walker for frail elderly with visual impairment. The device uses sensor information combined with user input to negotiate safely around obstacles.

*******************

Article 210

New intervention strategies include preventing initiation of the disease process; early detection, when the disease is most amenable to elimination; and arresting the process to stop the spread (metastasis) of the disease, which is the primary reason that patients suffer unduly and die. In short, we are rapidly learning how to modulate the cancer disease process. This ability to intervene will ultimately eliminate some cancers and transform others into chronic, manageable diseases that patients do live with and not die from.

1. Scientific advances in genomics, nanotechnology, proteomics, immunology and bioinformatics may soon allow us to profile a patient's genetic, lifestyle, and environmental risk for cancer and to be able to combine effective prevention and early intervention strategies for those at high risk. For example, genomic analysis of a patient's tumor and proteomic patterns obtained from a patient's serum, as well as sophisticated imaging technologies designed for molecular detection, will be used to identify cancers at the earliest stages. Precise molecular diagnosis and patient-specific profiling will allow physicians to predict responses to specific interventions and provide a rational basis for tailoring treatments. The result will be more effective and less toxic, targeted agents delivered to patients, which will greatly change the outcome of many cancers and which is attainable in the foreseeable future.

Given these extraordinary opportunities, the NCI is focused on accelerating the pace of therapeutics development through better integration of its translational research and clinical trials components and better collaboration with our partners in academia, the community, the pharmaceutical industry, and other federal agencies to ensure that we are optimally positioned to address the most compelling scientific and medical challenges facing patients with cancer.

*******************

Article 211

Therefore, it is reasonable to state that U.S. international scientific competitiveness is directly affected by high- performance computing. In addition, emerging economies such as India and China will eventually (perhaps greatly) exceed the United States in the total number of employed scientists and engineers. To maintain our leadership in important science and technology areas, we will need to make our scientists as productive as possible.

One way to do so is to extend our leadership in high-performance computing and extend our ability to apply high-performance computing to emerging areas such as nanotechnology, biotechnology, engineering, and environmental research - areas where rapid technological progress is possible and where the economic benefits of this rapid progress will have near-term impact. Most university-based U.S. scientists have access through peer-reviewed proposals to the NSF and DOE high-performance computer systems, which are among the most powerful in the world. Access to high-performance computing (HPC) systems by nonuniversity-based researchers varies depending on agency, with some agencies such as NNSA, NASA, and DOD providing considerable access and other such as EPA and NIH providing less access..

-Are current efforts on the part of the federal civilian science agencies in high-performance computing sufficient to assure U.S. leadership in this area? What should agencies such as the National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy be doing that they are not already doing now?

*******************

Article 212

High performance computing

The budget request included $186.7 million in PE 63755D8Z for the high performance computing modernization program, which supports the needs of the warfighter for technological superiority and military dominance on the battlefield by providing advanced computational services to U.S. weapons systems, scientists, and engineers. The committee recommends an increase in PE 63755D8Z of $2.0 million for high performance computing visualization research, which provides synergies between existing organizations and programs that are vital to the advancement of the Department of Defense's mission. The areas addressed in this research weather forecasting, computational chemistry and nanosensors for bioagent detection, robust distributed data storage, and advanced visualization methods are essential to the execution of the warfighting mission.

The acquisition community is increasingly reliant on high fidelity simulations to complement live fire testing activities. Simulations also permit engineering evaluation of functions that are not physically tested due to range, environmental, or cost constraints. The committee recommends an increase of $2.0 million for high performance computing simulation upgrades.

Command and control systems

*******************

Article 213

I have worked on reading the fingerprints of such killers as breast cancer, leukemia and malignant melanoma. While at the NIH, I also worked on identifying the genetic signatures, or what is known as the molecular fingerprint, of killer viruses such as HIV, human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1), human herpesvirus 8 (kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus) and, in collaboration with investigators at Ft. Dietrich, the dreaded Ebola virus. Also outlined by this panel today is the progress in surveying the response of the individual infected (the host) to provide a recognizable "molecular fingerprint" separating a naturally infecting virus, as an example, from bioweaponized strain of anthrax.

It is also important for this Subcommittee to be aware of similar progress, albeit preliminary in nature, of emerging work that is beginning to recognize that a "radiation-associated" gene response signature could be incorporated into a biomonitoring approach similar in design to that just described for biothreat- agents. Picturing the near-future, one can see the identification of sets of genes which once proven informative, could be incorporated into rapid assays (utilizing such techniques as nanotechnology and protein and gene expression analysis) performed on an easily biopsied tissue such as blood, and which could become part of a gene induction profile that could serve as an indicator of both an individuals' rate of exposure as well as their absolute dose of radiation (part of the collaboration between my laboratory at the NIH and the National Cancer Institute).

Recently my laboratory at TGen also joined forces with investigators at the DOD funded "National Functional Genomics Center" at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa, Florida to investigate protein markers of radiation response as well. By performing molecular signatures of patients undergoing cancer treatments with radiation therapy, we can establish a diagnostic profile using both genomics and proteomics that will be characteristic of someone exposed to radiation.

*******************

Article 214

Other examples of DOD sponsored research occurring at other universities around the county include:

-Semiconductors - The U.S. has been able to capitalize on increased computing capacity to provide an economic and military edge over other countries. But the U.S. computer-chip industry is quickly approaching the physical limits of the chip-making process. Without major research advances, the semiconductor industry's ability to sustain the pace of innovation could come to a halt in 10-15 years.

-Nanotechnology research promises both miniaturization of existing equipment and the potential for new materials, properties, and devices. Much of the current research is focused on improving the survival and comfort of soldiers. The 140-pound pack and cotton fatigues worn by infantry today could be transformed into a lightweight battlesuit able to protect the warfighter from enemy and environmental threats. At the same time, these suits could monitor health, help treat injuries, enable communications, and enhance performance.

-Explosives Detection Devices are an example of basic research efforts where additional investments are still needed. Nuclear quadropole resonance (NQR) technology detects and identifies specific molecules, such as nitrogen, in explosives. The technology has been adapted to detect landmines, roadside explosives, and terrorist bombs in such places as Bosnia and Iraq. But more research is needed to further transform and refine the military's traditional explosive detection systems.

*******************

Article 215

Many community college students are place or situation bound. They look to the local community college as their only hope for their future. If they are to move into a career and become productive members of their communities, then community colleges like CVTC have to provide them with the opportunities and support to make that a reality.

Services at community colleges are designed for a wide range of students. They include those who have not succeeded in high school, those who have been out of school for many years and need a career change, and those who are interested in new high technology careers like nanotechnology. Imagine the support systems that are necessary for that range of preparation.

That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reason why Perkins funding is critical at the community college level. No, it is critical to the future of the economy of the United States to keep that funding available to the students at our nation's community colleges.

*******************

Article 216

The vital standards and measurements provided by NIST are usually behind-the-scenes support that goes unnoticed by everyday consumers. For example, when you make a call on your cell phone, it works only because NIST developed and maintains the standards and measurements for the chips and circuits inside the phone, and because NIST helped develop the standards that allow different carriers' services and different types of phones to communicate with one another.

However, NIST is becoming even more important to the future of our industries, their competitiveness, and our national security. NIST scientists are on the forefront of nanotechnology and cyber- security research, standards and measurements for homeland security devices and equipment for first responders, and developing voluntary standards for new electronic voting machines - just to name a few.

Most unfortunately, at a time when we are relying more and more on NIST, Congress cut last year's appropriation for the NIST laboratory account by 14 percent, or $49 million below the Administration's request, and 5 percent below the funding level that NIST received in 2003. This reduction, coupled with costs of mandatory pay raises for its employees and regular inflation over the past several years, has gone beyond cutting the fat and muscle and has really carved into the bone.

*******************

Article 217

Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you and members of this distinguished Committee for inviting me here today. I applaud you, Chairman Boehlert, Representative Ehlers, Representative Udall, and all the members of the Science Committee who have taken the time to confront the challenges that will ensure our nation's future. We wouldn't be gathered here today, if not for your efforts.

I'm Tom Cellucci, President of Zyvex Corporation. Thank you for giving me the honor of sharing my views on the impact of NIST on our nation. 

As president of one of the world's leading nanotechnology companies, I have the rare opportunity and privilege to play a role in shaping this emerging field.

Zyvex's vision is to become the leading worldwide supplier of tools, products, and services that enable adaptable, affordable, and atomically precise manufacturing. Jim Von Ehr founded Zyvex in 1997 and we now employ over 50 people. We introduced 10 new products in 2003, and are on target to introduce an estimated 12 additional products and double our revenues in 2004.

I've had the honor and distinct privilege of meeting with several respected members of Congress about how NIST has enabled this new nanotechnology revolution. I'm especially grateful for the vision of President Bush, Senator George Allen, Senator Ron Wyden and Representatives Boehlert, Ehlers and Gordon in passing the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research & Development Bill into law this past December 2003. Jim Von Ehr was present when he signed it.

As members of the Science Committee know, we've made great strides by passing this Bill. However, much work still needs to be done to ensure that it will be the United States who continues as the world leader in science, technology, and business.

NIST

It's no surprise that America leads the world in technological innovation. Much of our leadership position and the jobs generated for Americans can be directly attributable to NIST. NIST fulfills a vital role in bringing the promise of nanotechnology to the American people. NIST is responsible for developing the measurements, standards, and data critical to private industry's development of products for a potential market that is estimated to exceed a trillion dollars in the next decade.

NIST brings about this innovation because NIST is committed to maximizing innovative technologies to our national economy through its labs, its Advanced Technology Program, and by working with the private sector to spur innovation and entrepreneurship.

Through NIST's measurements and standards laboratories, they are helping the private sector to create more high-quality, high- paying jobs.

Their commitment allows us to live in the best country in the world.

NIST and Industry Standards

NIST works with organizations in the private sector to develop consensus standards, which are needed by United States' industry for delivering, and improving products and services sold throughout the world. NIST's weights and measurements services are the basis for ensuring the efficiency and fairness of more than 5 trillion dollars in sales - roughly half of the U.S. economy. Industry standards are critical in emerging fields such as nanotechnology. Right now, one of the key issues facing the nanotechnology arena is the need for standards for nanoscale materials and tools. The NIST labs provide the accuracy, reliability and international recognition for the measurements and measurement-related operations that make up approximately 3 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product. In a marketplace that is increasingly global in nature, we know that 80 percent of all global merchandise trade is being influenced by testing and other measurement-related requirements of regulations and standards. More and more, U.S. companies cannot deal in this marketplace without NIST. For example, if NIST had not been involved, U.S. manufacturers of in vitro devices (IVD) wouldn't been able to meet new European Union regulations We now have more than 60% of a $7 billion market.

NIST's commitment to developing the best standards through its scientists and engineers, in tandem with industry leaders, is paramount for U.S. businesses to rapidly deploy these new novel nanotechnology products and services in this global economy.

*******************

Article 218

The ITRS also finds that we are beginning to reach the fundamental limits of the materials, used in the planar CMOS process, the process that has been the basic semiconductor industry for the past 30 years. By introducing new materials into the basic CMOS structure and devising new CMOS structures, further improvements in the CMOS process can continue for the next ten to fifteen years, at which time it becomes evident that most of the known technological capabilities of the CMOS device structure will approach or have reached their limits. In order to continue to drive information technology advances, it becomes necessary to investigate new devices that may provide a more cost- effective alternative to planar CMOS in this timeframe.

The ITRS lists the technical barriers at each stage of production that must be overcome if we are to continue to enjoy the benefits of chip technology advances. One important set of challenges is in the area of metrology. New metrology tools and techniques are needed to accurately perform critical measurements as new materials, processes, and device structures are introduced. These measurements are not only the obvious measurement of linear dimensions (nanometers) but also includes measurements such as a material's electrical characteristics, the aspect ratio of nanoscale trenches etched into chips, the thickness of oxide layers that are only a few atoms thick, and the size of pores inside of thin layers of materials.

The ITRS metrology chapter lists 112 measurements and controls and the required accuracy levels that must be met at specific points in time if semiconductor technology is continue to advance at current rates from now until 2018. The ITRS also identifies areas where further research is needed. For example, for 59 of these 112 measurements there are currently no known manufacturing solutions for the levels of accuracy that will be required on the factory floor in 2009 - a mere five years away.

*******************

Article 219

The work of NIST scientists impacts almost every citizen of this country as the experts at NIST have studied, measured or improved services and products, including cars, mobile phones, roads, furniture, CD players, shoes, houses, fire prevention, drinking water and air quality. The vital standards and measurements provided by NIST are usually behind-the-scenes support that goes unnoticed by everyday consumers. For example, when you make a call on your cell phone, it works only because NIST developed and maintains the standards and measurements for the chips and circuits inside the phone and because NIST helped develop the standards that allow different service providers and different types of phones to communicate with one another.

However, NIST is becoming even more important to the future of our industries, their competitiveness and our national security. NIST scientists are on the forefront of nanotechnology and cyber security research, standards and measurements for homeland security devices and equipment for first responders, and are developing standards for new electronic voting machines, just to name a few.

Most unfortunately, at a time when we are relying more and more on NIST year's appropriation for the NIST laboratory account by 14 percent, or $49 million below the administration's request, and 5 percent below the funding level that NIST received in 2003. This reduction, coupled with costs of mandatory pay raises for its employees and regular inflation over the past several years, has gone beyond cutting the fat and muscle and has really carved into the bone.

*******************

Article 220

Storage of electrical power is critical for stability and robustness of the electrical power grid, and it is absolutely essential if we are ever to use solar and wind as our dominant primary power source. The best place to provide this storage is locally, near the point of use. Imagine by 2050 that every house, every business, every building has its own local electrical energy storage device, an uninterruptible power supply capable of handling the entire needs of the owner for 24 hours. Since the devices are small, and relatively inexpensive, the owners can replace them with new models every 5 years or so as worldwide technological innovation and free enterprise continuously and rapidly develop improvements in this most critical of all aspects of the electrical energy grid. Today using lead-acid storage batteries, such a unit for a typical house to store 100 kilowatt hours of electrical energy would take up a small room and cost over $10,000. Through revolutionary advances in nanotechnology, it may be possible to shrink an equivalent unit to the size of a washing machine, and drop the cost to less than $1,000. Since the amount of energy stored is relatively small, there are many technologies that are being considered. One is a flow battery with a liquid electrolyte based on salts of vanadium. Another features a reversible hydrogen fuel cell which electrolyzes water to make hydrogen when it stores energy, then uses this hydrogen to make electricity as it is needed. Another uses advanced flywheels. With intense research and entrepreneural effort, many schemes are likely to be developed over the years to supply this local energy storage market that may expand to several billion units worldwide.

*******************

Article 221

But we have -- you know, we have an ability to pressure the Russians and we've backed off from that, and Putin has kind of clamped down in the wake of that.

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: By the way, nanotechnology, which is the science of tiny, molecular engines --

MR. PRESTOWITZ: Right.

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: -- the Chinese have produced as many learned papers as we have.

MR. PRESTOWITZ: The Chinese are moving very rapidly --

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: Not quite -- 5,300 is the United States, and 2,400 is the --

MR. PRESTOWITZ: Yeah, but when you look at the papers produced in the United States, you have to ask how many of them are being produced by people who are actually Chinese. I mean, we have an enormous flow -- which we need -- of foreign technologists coming into the U.S.

In biotech, in nanotech, the Chinese are moving rapidly. The Indians are moving rapidly in biotech.

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: Were you recently in India?

MR. PRESTOWITZ: I was in India two weeks ago, right.

*******************

Article 222

Taiwan's Economic Future

Economic relations with the PRC, which have been steadily liberalized in recent years, also will be a major factor in Taiwan's economic prospects. Diversification of foreign direct investment is always a prudent practice, as is a realistic attitude toward China's economic potential. With these principles in mind, Taiwan investment in the PRC can be a "win-win-win" solution for Taiwan, the PRC and the world economy as a whole. The island's role in world trade is even more critical for Taiwan's future overall competitiveness. Taiwan has emerged as a ranking international economy and an industrial powerhouse. As one of the Asian tigers, it has benefited from good policy, sound economic fundamentals, a good educational system, an outstanding workforce, and the suppleness of Taiwan's industrial structure, which is dominated by small- and medium-sized firms. Today, Taiwan's leaders are looking to new sectors such as biotechnology, optoelectronics, and nanotechnology as areas where Taiwan can maintain its world-class reputation and create new opportunities for growth. Taiwan's Challenge 2008 National Development Plan calls for an additional USD $16 billion, over six years, beyond existing commitments to improve infrastructure, facilitate R&D, and create new jobs.

*******************

Article 223

II. Abbreviated Process for Consideration of the Legislation and Failure To Utilize the Full Range of the Committee's Jurisdiction

In its consideration of H.R. 3970, the majority has consistently emphasized speed over content. In two weeks, H.R. 3970 went from introduction to markup by the full Committee. The bill received a single hearing on the day of introduction and was marked up by the Committee two weeks later. No subcommittee hearings or markups were held. This is in contrast to the deliberate procedure utilized recently for two bills of similar complexity H. R. 766, the Nanotechnology R&D Act, and H.R. 3980, the Wind Storm Hazard Reduction Act. With H.R. 3970, the Majority appeared to have an over-riding interest in moving the bill to the Floor quickly.

*******************

Article 224

Today's science and engineering challenges are more complex. Increasingly, they involve multi-investigator research, as well as a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary research. So, increasing award size and duration-across the board-remains one of NSF's top long-term priorities. In FY 2005 the average annual award will increase by $3,000. That brings the total increase to 58 percent since 1998.

Opportunities to advance knowledge have never been greater than they are today. NSF invests in emerging areas of research that hold exceptional potential to strengthen U.S. world leadership in areas of global economic and social importance. This year, NSF is requesting funding for five priority areas with very promising research horizons: biocomplexity, nanoscale science and engineering, mathematical sciences, human and social dynamics, and the 21 sc century workforce.

Biocomplexity in the Environment explores the complex interactions among organisms and their environments at all scales, and through space and time. This fundamental research on the links between ecology, diversity, the evolution of biological systems, and many other factors will help us better understand and, in time, predict environmental change. In FY 2005, Biocomplexity in the Environment will emphasize research on aquatic systems.

*******************

Article 225

Attracting the nation's best talent into science and engineering fields will be facilitated by increasing the level of graduate stipends from the base of $15,000 in 1999 to $30,000 today. In fiscal year 2005, the number of fellows will increase from 5,000 to 5,500 for NSF's flagship graduate education programs.

NSF's five focus priority areas are slated to receive more than $537 million in 2005. As the lead agency in the administration's national nano-technology initiative, support for nanoscale science and engineering will increase by 20 percent to $305 million.

Support for bio-complexity in the environment and mathematical sciences will continue at the 2004 levels.

The human and social dynamics priority area will provide $23 million to investigate the impacts of change on our lives and the stability of our institutions, with special emphasis on the way people make decisions and take risks.


*******************

Article 226

We've been very successful, I'm pleased to report, in bringing these two communities together to translate the fundamental discoveries from the technologically based scientists into meaningful clinical applications to patients. That is certainly our goal, and we work very hard to achieve that.

The progress today has been quite remarkable, given our short history of only two years. I'd like to tell you about two examples in this area.

The first is the development of a new technology called quantum dots. These are small nanocrystals that are able to identify specific cells in the body of interest, say cancer cells. They could also be used to identify the deposition of plaque in arteries.

We've also seen progress in an area that many persons in the audience might appreciate. No doubt, many people here have had MRI scans. This is a marvelous technology. In fact, the subject of a Nobel Prize in Medicine this year.


*******************

Article 227

Our investment in science and technology has and continues to underpin our modernization and recapitalization program. Similar to our applied-technology acquisition efforts, the Air Force's capability-based focus produces an S&T vision that supports the warfighter.

The Air Force S&T program fosters development of joint warfighting capabilities and integrated technologies, consistent with DoD and national priorities. We will provide a longterm, stable investment in S&T in areas that will immediately benefit existing systems and in transformational technologies that will improve tomorrow's Air Force. Many Air Force S&T programs, such as directed energy, hypersonics, laser-based communications, and the emerging field of nanotechnology, show promise for joint warfighting capabilities. Other technology areas, such as miniaturization of space platforms and space proximity operations, also show promise in the future. Through developments like these, the Air Force S&T program will advance joint warfighting capabilities and the Air Force vision of an integrated air and space force, capable of responsive and decisive global engagement.

*******************

Article 228

Bellevue Community College in the State of Washington has teamed with Microsoft Corporation and the American Association of Community Colleges (AACC) to develop the first systematic, nationwide plan for faculty development in the field of information technology (IT). The Working Connections IT Faculty Development Institute aims to provide early training for community college instructors on emerging IT workforce requirements.

A Regional Center for Nanofabrication Manufacturing Education, supported by NSF's Advanced Technological Education (ATE) program, is a partnership for enhancing nanotechnology education. The partners include the State of Pennsylvania, Penn State University, Pennsylvania's community colleges, the State System of Higher Education, Penn College of Technology, CAMtech, MET Inc., secondary schools, private industry, and other participants. The primary goal of the Center is to use the resources of the Penn State Nanofabrication Facility to develop and support K-12 and post-secondary nanotechnology awareness and education. The Center is dedicated to introducing students to the full range and full impact of nanofabrication applications, including biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, optoelectronics, information storage, materials manufacturing, and many others.

At National Instruments in Austin, Texas, the company's LabView software is a key component in the successful LEGO RoboLab products and curriculum. More than 10 percent of the company's engineers have gone through training conducted by the college of engineering at the University of Texas-Austin that is intended to make them effective classroom resources for teachers. After training, these practicing engineers serve as mentors, advisors, and collaborators for individual teachers in the community.


*******************

Article 229

DARPA led much of the early development that led to the microelectronics industry that we know today. Today, while the commercial microelectronics industry continues to aggressively push on productivity and scaling of two-dimensional integrated circuits, DARPA is developing the technical foundation for the next revolution we refer to as the three-dimensional integrated microsystem. This will enable a new class of components with optimized performance that sense and adapt to the environment across the full spectrum; that dynamically configure to the mission at hand; that influence and actuate elements of the environment with micro-scale precision; and that provide a communications channel that is nearly impossible to detect or jam, yet is perfectly clear.

The commercial microelectronics sector is rapidly approaching the ability to build electronic systems containing a trillion transistors in roughly a liter-volume and dissipating less than 100 watts or so. This is about the same complexity as the human brain, and it certainly gives us enormous potential for future electronic systems. However, the highest payoff opportunities for the Department lie in the convergence of several core technologies, namely, the ability to integrate these trillions of transistors with novel nanostructures, photonics, and MEMS. By leveraging the convergence of these technologies, designing new architectures, and integrating them in entirely new ways, we plan to open the field of the Integrated Microsystem.

To this end, one representative example of the technologies we are pursuing is the three-dimensional circuit architecture, which will be foundational to the Integrated Microsystem. We believe that by dividing a circuit into a number of blocks, implementing each block on a separate semiconductor layer, and then stacking the layers on top of one another, we will increase performance, reduce overall system size, and create entirely new options for device architecture and materials integration. Instead of thinking only in terms of scaling two-dimensional devices to smaller sizes, we will change the paradigm to one of volumetric integration.


*******************

Article 230

The Institute for Creative Technologies (ICT) at the University of Southern CA continues to be an excellent example of how these Centers attack Army problems with new and different views. ICT leverages academic and Hollywood expertise to perform fundamental research in simulation environments and virtual human depiction for training, mission planning and rehearsal. It has worked with the Training and Doctrine Command's (TRADOC), Infantry School at Fort Benning to develop cognitive leadership training aids that leverage both Microsoft's X-Box game console (Full Spectrum Warrior) and "gamer" PC's (Full Spectrum Commander). In fact, Full Spectrum Commander is currently being adapted for Afghan National Army training in Operation Enduring Freedom.

The Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies (ISN) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology focuses and adapts nanotechnology research to significantly enhance soldier survivability. Investment areas are nanofibers for lighter materials, active/reactive ballistic protection (to solve the energy dissipation problem), microclimate conditioning, signature management, biomonitoring/ triage and active control components.

Last month we opened the Institute for Collaborative Biotechnologies (ICB) at the University of California, Santa Barbara. The ICB integrates biosciences with the physical and engineering sciences to provide an understanding of the biological construction of novel materials such as biologically- derived, functional electronic, magnetic and optical materials; integrated multi-modality sensing; biologically-derived network concepts; and, sense and respond actuation capabilities. This will influence the development of technology that improves military capabilities in the areas of precision strike, signature management, network design and implementation and "identification of friend or foe."


*******************

Article 231

These systems will provide unprecedented levels of situational awareness in the most severe threat environments. Whether we are operating in urban environments, sensing bio-chemical dispersion through the atmosphere, or looking over the next hill, our troops will have the awareness needed to fight and survive. These systems will provide the persistent intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance in high threat environments needed by our troops on the ground and our airmen in the air. When called for, swarms of these vehicles will cooperate together to generate both lethal and nonlethal effects.

In the next 50 years, advancements in nanotechnology will provide the greatest change in how man operates since the invention of powered flight itself. Nanotechnology is a science and a series of disciplines that works at the atomic and molecular level to create structures, materials, and devices through improved molecular organization. By working with elements at the level of nanometer scale, we have access to the building blocks of nature. This will fundamentally change the way materials and devices will be produced in the future. The ability to synthesize nanoscale building blocks with precisely controlled size and composition and to then assemble them into larger structures with unique properties and functions will revolutionize segments of the materials and device industry. The benefits that nanostructuring can bring include lighter, stronger, and programmable materials; reductions in life cycle costs through lower failure rates; innovative devices based on new principles and architectures; nanosensors and nanoprocessors; and use of molecular/cluster manufacturing, which takes advantage of assembly at the nanoscale level for a given purpose.

Another significant breakthrough technology that will change the way we develop systems is our work in biotechnology. Biology has developed unique materials and processes that may be exploited in non-biological systems. Our research is focused on studying the science necessary to incorporate biological components and organisms into Air Force systems. For example, in biomemetics, we research the adaptation of natural biological sensor in reptiles. The natural infrared sensors in reptiles do not need to be cooled. We hope to adapt this biological process to Air Force sensor applications that normally require cryogenic cooling. 

*******************

Article 232


MEEHAN: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and I join you in welcoming our panelists, and it's always great to see the Department of Defense's talented and also familiar S&T team, led by Dr. Sega.

I'd like to associate myself with the chairman's opening remarks and offer a few of my own. I strongly support this panel's across- the-board efforts to promote S&T investment, especially in the fields that offer the promise of major advancements in the near or not-too- distant future. For example, chemical and biological research, nanotechnology, innovative propulsions and various information technologies can give us critical advantages, particularly in the area of surveillance, battle management and intel

As we learned last week in testimony from General Brown, commander of the central operations command, the fight against terrorism is at its core an intelligence-based problem. I certainly agree that accurate intelligence and actionable intelligence are essential, and I'm interested in learning what we can do help make sure that we have the technological tools we need to gather this intelligence against terrorism.

*******************

Article 233

There is recent evidence that innovation will continue to propel the American economy. According to the Institute for International Economics, our economy shed 71,000 software programmer jobs paying an average of $64,000 between 1999-2002. But at the same time, 115,000 software engineering jobs paying $75,000 were created, a good sign that higher-paying jobs are replacing those being lost.

Americans should expect great advances in biotechnology, nanotechnology, and in many other industries across our economy. These advances will improve lives around the world and create American jobs. That is why the President is taking dramatic steps to promote innovation through R&D, with targeted spending at the record levels noted above. This money catalyzes the private sector's ingenuity and creates the industries and jobs of the future.

Business leaders emphasize the importance of adequately and effectively protecting intellectual property rights, and the corrosive effect of the failure of some of our trading partners to enforce these rights. Intellectual property protection is essential in ensuring the virtuous cycle of innovation that raises our productivity and meets the needs of consumers around the world. That is why the Department of Commerce continues to strengthen the Patent and Trademark Office, enhancing intellectual property protection and increasing the availability of new products and services.

*******************

Article 234

FY 2004 Comparable Appropriation - $1,010.6M; FY 2005 Request - $1,063.5M The Basic Energy Sciences (BES) program is a principal sponsor of fundamental research for the Nation in the areas of materials sciences and engineering, chemistry, geosciences, and bioscience as it relates to energy. This research underpins the DOE missions in energy, environment, and national security; advances energy-related basic science on a broad front; and provides unique user facilities for the scientific community and industry.

For FY 2005, the Department requests $1.1 billion for BES including $208.6 million to continue to advance nanoscale science through atomic- and molecular-level studies in materials sciences and engineering, chemistry, geosciences, and energy biosciences. This supports Project Engineering Design (PED) and construction of four Nanoscale Science Research Centers (NSRCs) and a Major Item of Equipment for the fifth and final NSRC. NSRCs are user facilities for the synthesis, processing, fabrication, and analysis of materials at the nanoscale. The request also includes $80.5 million for construction and $33.1 million for other project costs for the Spallation Neutron Source, and $54.1 million for research, development, PED, and long lead procurement of the Linac Coherent Light Source, a revolutionary x-ray free- electron laser light source. With these tools, we will be able to understand how the compositions of materials affect their properties, watch proteins fold, see chemical reactions, and design matter for desired outcomes.

The FY 2005 budget request also includes $29.2 million for activities that support the President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative. This research program is based on the BES workshop report, Basic Research Needs for the Hydrogen Economy, which highlights the enormous gap between our present capabilities and those required for a competitive hydrogen economy.

*******************

Article 235

Solar Energy Technology. The FY 2005 budget request for Solar Technology is $80.3 million. This is a slight increase over the unencumbered FY 2004 appropriation of $79.7 million, but slightly less than the total appropriation of $83.4 million, which included $3.6 million earmarked to specific recipients.

The photovoltaic program is focused on next-generation technologies such as thin-film photovoltaic cells and leap-frog technologies such as polymers and nanostructures. The FY 2005 request of $75.4 million for photovoltaic includes: $30 million for critical fundamental research, including $2.1 million to equip the new Science and Technology Facility at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory; $29 million for advanced materials; and $16.4 million for technology development efforts to improve reliability. The FY 2005 $2.9 million request for Solar Heating and Lighting will support efforts on hot water and space heating for residential and commercial buildings in collaboration with industry partners.

Last year, we did not request funding for Concentrating Solar Power. In light of recent studies we sought from an independent engineering firm, a draft of which was reviewed by the National Research Council, the Department proposes $2 million for Concentrating Solar Power in FY 2005 to support a more thorough investigation of the appropriate R&D course needed to realize its potential. The FY 2005 budget request will maintain essential facilities and support work with several States while allowing us to develop a longer term R&D plan.

*******************

Article 236

At that June 2001 meeting, months before September 11th -- I cautioned our NATO colleagues as follows: 

"We know this much for certain: it is unlikely that any of us here knows what is likely. None of us has a crystal ball through which we can clearly see the future. [But] while it is difficult to know precisely who will threaten us or where or when in the coming decades, it is less difficult to anticipate how we will be threatened. We know, for example, that as an Alliance of democracies, our open borders and open societies make it easy and inviting for terrorists to strike at our people where they live [and] work_. Our dependence on computer-based information networks make those networks attractive targets for new forms of cyber-attack. The ease with which potential adversaries can acquire advanced conventional weapons_ will present us with new challenges in conventional war and force projection. Our lack of defenses against ballistic missiles creates incentives for missile proliferation which, combined with the development of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction, give future adversaries the ability to hold our populations hostage to terror and blackmail_. [T]he parallel revolutions of miniaturization, information, biotechnology, robotics, nanotechnology, and high- density energy sources are putting unprecedented power in the hands of small countries and even terrorist groups, foreshadowing changes beyond any ability to forecast." (See Attachment #3)

These are the kinds of threats that we at Defense were preparing to meet and deal with in the months before September 11th. And during those early months, we made significant progress in the effort to transform for the era of surprise and unconventional threats. They included:

*******************

Article 237

Our investment in science and technology has and continues to underpin our modernization and recapitalization program. Similar to our applied-technology acquisition efforts, the Air Force-s capability-based focus produces an S&T vision that supports the warfighter.

The Air Force S&T program fosters development of joint warfighting capabilities and integrated technologies, consistent with DoD and national priorities. We will provide a long-term, stable investment in S&T in areas that will immediately benefit existing systems and in transformational technologies that will improve tomorrow-s Air Force. Many Air Force S&T programs, such as directed energy, hypersonics, laser-based communications, and the emerging field of nanotechnology, show promise for joint warfighting capabilities. Other technology areas, such as miniaturization of space platforms and space proximity operations, also show promise in the future. Through developments like these, the Air Force S&T program will advance joint warfighting capabilities and the Air Force vision of an integrated air and space force capable of responsive and decisive global engagement.

Capabilities-Based Acquisition/Transforming Business Practices


*******************

Article 238

Some Chinese technological universities are making a greater commitment to green chemistry than has any U.S. university to date. Altogether, those who care about the competitiveness of the U.S. chemical industry might do well to take heed: If U.S. firms lag behind in moving toward green chemistry, given the long period for amortization of chemical plant and equipment, they may lose market share and endanger profitability during the catch-up phase.

Another general consideration bearing on the legislation can be put in the form of a question: Why is there no explicit research on ethical, legal, and social implications (ELSI) of the $500 billion-dollar chemical industry and its associated research infrastructure in universities and elsewhere? There have been set- asides or other ELSI initiatives in connection with nanotechnology, climate change research, and other recent technological inquiries. But not for chemistry, chemical engineering, and the chemical industry. Perhaps it could be said that there is plenty of environmental research already underway, even if not directly connected with chemicals? Just so. However, "chemophobia," as some industry insiders and chemists refer to the public's distrust for chemicals, grew to significant proportions in the late 20 th century partly because most people feel excluded from chemical deliberations and choices. This may be a questionable perception, in that consumers do participate in choosing final products. We feel excluded, and we do not trust, and we do not understand -- and somewhere in that triumvirate is a nontrivial problem concerning the relations of citizens with the chemical industry and the chemical science community. The green chemistry deliberations bring up the possibility of tackling the relationship between chemistry and society in a creative way by focusing on the social components explicitly..5

*******************

Article 239

Photovoltaic research and development seeks to reduce the manufacturing cost of highly reliable photovoltaic modules from $2.10/watt in 2003 to $1.85/watt by FY 2005, roughly equivalent to about 20 cents per kilowatt-hour (kWh). This price will enable expanded deployment of the technology in niche markets such as remote locations and areas where peak demand prices are high. Ultimately, we aim to reduce the cost to about 6 cents/kWh in order to be competitive in most markets. The program is focused on next-generation technologies such as thin-film photovoltaic cells and leap-frog technologies such as polymers and nanostructures. Systems engineering efforts seek to increase system durability and develop technologies to improve interconnections with the electric grid. The FY 2005 request of $75.4 million for photovoltaics includes: $30 million for critical fundamental research, including $2.1 million to equip a new Science and Technology Facility at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory; $29 million for advanced materials, including thin films and next generation materials with potential for dramatic cost reductions; and $16.4 million for technology development efforts to improve reliability of the entire system, including testing, verification, and deployment activities for grid-connected applications and analysis of private sector commercialization options.


*******************

Article 240

Have you given any thought to other more creative ways that we could make our soldiers safer?

MR. BOLTON: Yes, sir. I mentioned in my opening remarks that the SAPI plates are protecting the torso from injuries that would have killed soldiers formerly. And as you've just pointed out, soldiers are being injured -- arms, and legs and so forth.

A bit over a year ago we struck a relationship between the Army, academia and industry to work nanotechnology, work down at the atomic level with materials. One of the aims was to take a look at materials that we currently used in the body armor and see if we can't reduce the thickness of it -- don't reduce the capability -- if anything, increase the capability. But reduce the thickness.

I'm happy to say that we're making great progress along those lines. A week or so ago at one of our conferences we demonstrated one of the materials where you could take a similar thickness -- and this is about the thickness of a couple of T-shirts -- take an ice pick and normal Kevlar material it would go right through it. With this material, I don't care how strong you are, you cannot go through it.

*******************

Article 241

In the 1980s, Congress and others were concerned about our ability to compete in semiconductors --yet the biggest growth in value and in job creation in semiconductors in the 1990s was right here in the United States.

Today, it is true that the world remains highly competitive. As venture capitalists, we see our challenge as to find and fund new areas that promise to change -- for the better -- the way we live and work. As we meet this morning, a new generation of venture capitalists is funding a new generation of companies in emerging area such nanotechnology, genetics, photonics, energy, fuel cells, and lasers. What do these areas have in common? In every one, the United States is the leader.

I am here today on behalf of the venture capital community because we share the concerns of this Committee of surrounding sustainable job growth in the United States. As a country that has been built on the pioneering of new markets and industries, the U.S. will always be faced with the challenge and the question of whether to continue to pioneer, or to turn inward in some attempt to consolidate our gains. The NVCA wishes to be on the record before this Committee in favor of making the investments we need to make today to ensure our continued leadership tomorrow. In the end, we believe that it is the combination of innovation and entrepreneurship that will continue to improve the lives of Americans, maximize the creation of new jobs to help offset the job erosion that has always been part of our economic landscape, and provide Americans with an exciting set of new opportunities for growth.

*******************

Article 242

My final comment will address an issue of great concern to the Board. Our analyses of EPA's science and research budgets, today and in the past, convince us that the Agency is in danger of underestimating the pace of large scale changes that are now occurring in our society. If so, EPA and the nation are at risk of repeating the mistakes of the past that force us to spend huge sums of public funds to reduce and to clean up the pollution brought on by the first industrial revolution.

The evidence before us suggests that we are now in a new, high velocity technological revolution that will yield great economic gains, but at the same time, will offer new environmental challenges. Nanotechnology and biotechnology, to name only two innovations, are proceeding with breathtaking speed, and are compounded by forces such as global transfer of pollution and disease, and possible climate change. EPA must carefully examine all of its science and research programs and ask whether the Agency is conducting research that will help us protect human health and the environment while encouraging innovation and growth.

This is not to say that EPA should neglect the "legacy" issues of the past; rather, the Agency must continue to resolve those problems, and at the same time, work with citizen's groups, industry, and academia in creative ways to ensure that the nation avoids a new legacy of human health and environmental problems.

*******************

Article 243

Now, this also goes to Senator Bond.

One of the things I think we both admire in NASA is not only the exploration of what's out there, but the invention of technology, the new ideas that then lead to new products that also benefit the larger American community. We come up with new products, we're more competitive, we have jobs.

As you are looking at the development of a new vehicle ---- we'll call it the Crew Exploration ---- is that part of the intent, to be looking at these whole new concepts, like nanotechnology, et cetera? And along the way, do you anticipate that this will accrue to our knowledge to, number one, aeronautics, because we're competing with Airbus?

Number two, new kinds of materials, because won't they have to be lighter, more resilient, in order to be able to go out there whenever we go?

*******************

Article 244

He's got a number of operations and he's back at Walter Reed now. So every little bit helps. Have we given any thought to other more creative ways that we could make a soldiers safer?

BOLTON: Yes, sir. I mentioned in my opening remarks, that the SAPI plates are protecting the torso from injuries that would've killed soldiers formerly. And as you've just pointed out, soldiers are being injured, arms and legs and so forth.

A bit over a year ago, we struck a relationship between the Army, academia and industry to work nanotechnology, work down at the atomic level with materials. One of the aims was to take a look at the materials that we currently use in the body armor and see if we can't reduce the thickness of it. Don't reduce the capability; if anything, increase the capability but reduce the thickness.

*******************

Article 245

Even the sacrifice of science or technology would probably not provide the resources needed with the current plan. Observations and Recommendations: Fundamentally the whole approach needs to be re-thought. NASA continues, as it has for its entire existence, to pursue the approach that Wernher von Braun proposed in Collier's Magazine in 1952 - rocket launches, a space station, lunar and Mars bases? This approach can be visualized by watching the movie 2001.' A Space Odyssey. But times have changed and we need to look at new approaches: - New Ideas and Analysis Tools: Since Apollo NASA has had few new ideas about how to explore space. A recent presentation by a young NASA engineer showed exactly the same visualization and study tools27 as my colleagues and I used in the late 1980's and was a rehash of the same concepts we were studying then. 28 - New technologies: For example, the space elevator, the subject of Arthur C. Clarke's 1956 Fountains of Paradise29 appears to be close to being enabled by structures built with carbon nanotubes and commercial ventures are being undertaken to build one. This is a system that puts a space station in a geosynchronous orbit 23,000 miles above the earth and lowers a cable to a point on the equator. Once this (admittedly expensive) infrastructure was in place it could be used to launch payloads beyond earth orbit. A preliminary design and cost estimates for a commercial space elevator system30 were funded by the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts which routinely provides seed funding for innovative space exploration concepts. However, none of NASA's human exploration studies are looking at anything creative like the use of a space elevator31. This is not to say that it is the answer, just that new approaches enabled by new technology should be considered. - New Economics: Wealthy people are entering the game. Dennis Tito and Mark Shuttleworth are the vanguard of space tourism and many companies are vying to put people in orbit.
 
*******************

Article 246

The cost of the program is difficult to evaluate. But even the upper bound of projections for 15 or 20 years are less than the defense budget for a single year. I can't really judge the impacts of the program on other NASA missions because the details are only clear for 2005. However, there are several strategic flaws with the program including a possibly premature phase-out of the shuttle and certainly premature focus on a specific exploration approach which is at least 50 years old and needs to be completely rethought.

NASA continues, as it has for its entire existence, to pursue the approach that Wernher von Braun proposed in Collier's magazine in 1952. This approach can be visualized by watching the movie "2001: A Space Odyssey." But times have changed and we need to look at new approaches. We need new ideas. NASA's current designs are a rehash of the same concepts we were studying in the 1980s. We need new technologies. For example, the space elevator which was the subject of Arthur C. Clarke's "Fountains of Paradise" of 1956 appears to be close to being enabled by structures built with carbon nanotubes and commercial ventures are being undertaken to build one. None of NASA's human exploration studies, that I've seen, are looking at anything so creative.

There are new economics. Dennis Tito, is the vanguard of space tourism, and many companies are vying to put people in orbit and there is an article on the latest "Scientific American," just out, about some of those companies. New launch companies with their backers include Scaled Composites supported by Paul Allen and John Carmack's Armadillo Aerospace. A new bill to provide regulatory standards has just passed the House of Representatives.

*******************

Article 247

Observations and Recommendations: Fundamentally the whole approach needs to be re-thought. NASA continues, as it has for its entire existence, to pursue the approach that Wernher von Braun proposed in Collier's Magazine in 1952 - rocket launches, a space station, lunar and Mars bases.26 This approach can be visualized by watching the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey. But times have changed and we need to look at new approaches: -New Ideas and Analysis Tools: Since Apollo NASA has had few new ideas about how to explore space. A recent presentation by a young NASA engineer showed exactly the same visualization and study tools 27 as my colleagues and I used in the late 1980's and was a rehash of the same concepts we were studying then. 28 -New technologies: For example, the space elevator, the subject of Arthur C. Clarke's 1956 Fountains of Paradise 29 appears to be close to being enabled by structures built with carbon nanotubes and commercial ventures are being undertaken to build one. This is a system that puts a space station in a geosynchronous orbit 23,000 miles above the earth and lowers a cable to a point on the equator. Once this (admittedly expensive) infrastructure was in place it could be used to launch payloads beyond earth orbit. A preliminary design and cost estimates for a commercial space elevator system 30 were funded by the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts which routinely provides seed funding for innovative space exploration concepts. However, none of NASA's human exploration studies are looking at anything creative like the use of a space elevator 31 . This is not to say that it is the answer, just that new approaches enabled by new technology should be considered.


*******************

Article 248

In fact, I asked NASA people, can you help me to predict El Nino nine months ahead of time. They can't. I say let's go, you know, and see, can we work together and see whether or not that could be done. So we got together and the Secretary Veneman and the NASA administrator actually last year, within this last 12 months, signed an agreement of long-term research for the two agencies to work together toward that goal.

So these are, you know, some of the, I think, futuristic type of research that we do actually do. Maybe we didn't advertise it, you know, as widely as we should have been. More closely, like we're bringing nanotechnology into agriculture for the very first time in this last year, I think, in the NIE (ph) grant, with the increase you gave us, we cover a small portion to see what is nanotechnology that can be used in agriculture.

These are futuristic type of research on that. These are just some examples, ma'am.

KAPTUR: Thank you.

Mr. Chairman, I know my time has expired. Much of that sounds like applied research and in the next round of questioning I'm going to ask you to discuss either your (inaudible) research accounts, where is the biofuels research embedded, if at all. Thank you.

*******************

Article 249

But their assisting each other is the ultimate goal of this thing.

You know, I think that's going to be the natural evolution of this thing. And that could well be -- we have to be careful -- the natural evolution of the science will be robotics to robotics with humans.

SMITH: You mean, with humans going out there, regardless of what we are able to accomplish with robotics and nanotechnology?

FISK: I think we're going to send robotics out there. We're going to learn things. And then we're going to continue -- and it will evolve to where the human and the robots are closer together than they are today.

SMITH: And, Dr. Griffin, maybe react a little bit -- and thank you, from the University of Michigan -- in terms of, it's been sort of my impression that man in outer space, space platforms, the space station, was primarily to decide and learn how man can survive in outer space, as opposed to the exploration. So maybe, sort of mend that into your response on this question.

*******************

Article 250

Many adversaries have demonstrated skill in misinformation and disinformation campaigns that target the United States and third parties to undermine US interests. The threat to computer networks is extremely dynamic, with growing capabilities that are easily proliferated. Numerous distributed denial of service techniques, to include viruses and worms, could be used to shut down or disrupt computers in the lead up to or during a conflict. Most disturbing is that the basic tools are readily available on the Internet and can be customized by adversaries to fit their needs. We expect the IO threat to grow.

General Technology Proliferation. The situation remains unchanged from my testimony last year. Advances in information technology, biotechnology, communications, materials, micro-manufacturing, and weapon development are having a significant impact on the way militaries and terrorist groups organize, plan, train and fight. Globalization of "R&D intensive" capabilities, such as computer hardware and software, biotechnology and nanotechnology, is allowing smaller militaries, groups, and even individuals' access to capabilities previously limited to those of the major powers. Integration, advancements and unanticipated applications of emerging technologies make the future and, correspondingly, our military strengths and vulnerabilities, extremely difficult to predict. While DIA cannot identify with specificity, some aspects of our military advantage will erode. Technological surprise is of great concern and we are watching this area intensely.

Global Defense Spending. Non-US global defense spending which we reported last year dropped 50% over the past decade, will likely increase during the next five years. The improving global economy is allowing increased funding at moderate rates. Defense spending will enable countries to pursue selective force modernization.

*******************

Article 251

But, the Commission report also recommended an increased investment in long-term aerospace research in the following areas: Information Technology; Propulsion and Power; Noise and Emissions; Breakthrough Energy Sources; Human Factors; and Nanotechnology. Investment into the science and technology base for all these areas is increasing in the Department of Defense. Additionally, the DoD has increased investment and work in modeling and simulation of flight profiles and computational fluid dynamic codes for engines, airframes, and now, hypersonic combustion. The Department has also focused a science and technology effort, called "Energy and Power Technologies" which has goals of increasing energy density from materials and batteries and increasing the energy efficiency of solar collectors in space.

Clearly, the investment has, in fact, increased. But, more important than the basic investment is the content of the program. Consider the additional following significant technology activities that have occurred over the past several years:

*

The Integrated High Performance Turbine Engine Technology (IHPTET) program has increased the operating parameters of the turbine engine to support the next generation turbine engines for military and (spin-off) civil applications, effectively doubling capability, including increased thrust-to-weight and decreased specific fuel consumption (SFC), since the program's inception. *

*******************

Article 252

As I've said many times before, funding for research in the hard sciences is one of the very best and most appropriate investments taxpayer dollars can be made for this country. Few things that we do here can make our country safer and more secure than maintaining a scientific and technological edge. For many years now, Chairman Domenici and I have watched as the last two administrations have sent ever escalating budget requests up here for the National Institute of Health that have far outstripped the request for the Office of Science.

The imbalance between funding for the physical science and the biological sciences was getting to be staggering particularly because both disciplines rely on each other so much. I think this is shortsighted in the long term.

I am pleased with the work that you are doing on geonomics, on the very impressive pace of the nanotechnology program. Drew Wells (ph) of my staff and Tammy Perrin (ph) of Senator Domenici's staff visited the Lawrence Berkeley National Labs last month and were surprised at the rapid progress the lab is making on the molecular foundry. You've been on the job for nearly two years and I hope you're enjoying your time in one of the greatest jobs our federal government has to offer.

Mr. Garman, you know I am a big supporter of your programs and believe that the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden is one of the premier labs in all of the DOE if not the world. While I certainly hope we can add some resources to your budget, I realize that the most important thing Congress can do in the short term for the renewable energy industry is to get a series of productive tax credits into place and extend some of the others. Hopefully, our body will be able to get that done this year and we may be able to get it done on this bill this week.

*******************

Article 253

Recommendation ES-10. There should be a shift in the hydrogen program away from some development areas and toward exploratory work--as has been done in the area of hydrogen storage. A hydrogen economy will require a number of technological and conceptual breakthroughs. The Department of Energy program calls for increased funding in some important exploratory research areas such as hydrogen storage and photoelectrochemical hydrogen production. However, the committee believes that much more exploratory research is needed.

Other areas likely to benefit from an increased emphasis on exploratory research include delivery systems, pipeline materials, electrolysis, and materials science for many applications. The execution of such changes in emphasis would be facilitated by the establishment of DOE-sponsored academic energy research centers. These centers should focus on interdisciplinary areas of new science and engineering--such as materials research into nanostructures, and modeling for materials design--in which there are opportunities for breakthrough solutions to energy issues.

Recommendation ES-11. As a framework for recommending and prioritizing the Department of Energy program, the committee considered the following:

- Technologies that could significantly impact U.S. energy security and carbon dioxide emissions, - The timescale for the evolution of the hydrogen economy, - Technology developments needed for both the transition period and steady state, - Externalities that would decelerate technology implementation, and - The comparative advantage of the DOE in research and development of technologies at the pre-competitive stage.

*******************

Article 254

The Command has established a formal relationship with the TRADOC Futures Center (FC). This relationship insures the integration of technology into holistic Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leader Development, and Personnel (DOTMLPF) solutions for the warfighter. The RDECOM becomes the entry point for the FC for all Army Material Command (AMC) Science and Technology (S&T) products through multiple channels that includes resident liaison officers assuring that the FC is cognizant of emerging technology enablers and the potential to deliver capabilities to the warfighter. The FC/RDECOM team provides a decision making framework for Army leadership by analyzing S&T developments linked to operational capability to validate the S&T investment. The Command plays an integral role with the FC in addressing shortfalls in future operating capabilities (FOCs) and providing the technologies to assure that warfighter capability goals are met. The Command's technology integrated product teams (IPT), including strong FC participation, insure that all pursued efforts will result in operationally relevant solutions to warfighter requirements and that the warfighter requirements are met. The focus for this new command has been in the power and energy, lethality, robotics, modeling and simulation, countermine, supportability, survivability, networking, nanotechnology, and biotechnology areas.

The role of RDECOM is to provide a single integrated strategy toward the research, development and engineering of materiel solutions addressing user requirements. One major player in the strategy is that of experimentation. The linking of experimentation insures that RDECOM technology demonstrations are operationally relevant, while providing a venue to develop operational concepts for new technologies in FC experiments. By adhering to a Code of Best Practices for Experimentation, and institutionalizing the system engineering processes and disciplines throughout the RDECs, the Command provides a broad base of consistent and innovative approaches to developing the DOTMLPF solutions for the warfighter today and tomorrow. Using a variety of tools, ranging from hardware platforms, through virtual simulations, in either stand-alone or integrated mode, the centers perform a variety of experiments, from discovery, through hypothesis testing, and demonstration, leading to a developed and refined military capability. One of the tools that the Command will use is the Modeling Architecture for Technology, Research and Experimentation (MATREX) STO, that is developing a persistent, secure, distributed and reusable environment where models can be "plugged" into an established architecture as needed and then "played" for engineering analysis, evaluations, supportability and technology trade-offs in support of Army transformation. The MATREX will be a key enabler of Simulation and Modeling for Acquisition, Requirements and Technology (SMART) initiatives throughout the command and the Army that will enable the Army to field equipment to the warfighters more speedily. Together with the Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) and the Army Test and Evaluation Command (ATEC), the RDECOM plays a vital role in experimentation and development, from concept to fielding.


*******************

Article 255

The Institute for Creative Technologies (ICT) at the University of Southern CA continues to be an excellent example of how these Centers attack Army problems with new and different views. ICT leverages academic and Hollywood expertise to perform fundamental research in simulation environments and virtual human depiction for training, mission planning and rehearsal. It has worked with the Training and Doctrine Command's (TRADOC), Infantry School at Fort Benning to develop cognitive leadership training aids that leverage both Microsoft's X-Box game console (Full Spectrum Warrior) and "gamer" PC's (Full Spectrum Commander). In fact, Full Spectrum Commander is currently being adapted for Afghan National Army training in Operation Enduring Freedom.

The Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies (ISN) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology focuses and adapts nanotechnology research to significantly enhance soldier survivability. Investment areas are nanofibers for lighter materials, active/reactive ballistic protection (to solve the energy dissipation problem), microclimate conditioning, signature management, biomonitoring/triage and active control components.

Last month we opened the Institute for Collaborative Biotechnologies (ICB) at the University of California, Santa Barbara. The ICB integrates biosciences with the physical and engineering sciences to provide an understanding of the biological construction of novel materials such as biologically-derived, functional electronic, magnetic and optical materials; integrated multi-modality sensing; biologically-derived network concepts; and, sense and respond actuation capabilities. This will influence the development of technology that improves military capabilities in the areas of precision strike, signature management, network design and implementation and "identification of friend or foe."


*******************

Article 256

In recent years, we have all come to appreciate the success of manned vehicles. We hear over and over again the tremendous operational advantages that systems such as Predator and Global Hawk are bringing to warfighters from all Services. Over the first two decades of the 21 st Century, advances in micro manned air vehicles will provide significant additional capabilities to our Armed Forces. Micro air vehicles utilize advances in microscale aerodynamics, electronic miniaturization, munitions, and propulsion to package sensory and weapons payloads into highly reliable, on-demand systems. These systems will provide unprecedented levels of situational awareness in the most severe threat environments. Whether we are operating in urban environments, sensing bio-chemical dispersion through the atmosphere, or looking over the next hill, our troops will have the awareness needed to fight and survive. These systems will provide the persistent intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance in high threat environments needed by our troops on the ground and our airmen in the air. When called for, swarms of these vehicles will cooperate together to generate both lethal and nonlethal effects.

In the next 50 years, advancements in nanotechnology will provide the greatest change in how man operates since the invention of powered flight itself. Nanotechnology is a science and a series of disciplines that works at the atomic and molecular level to create structures, materials, and devices through improved molecular organization. By working with elements at the level of nanometer scale, we have access to the building blocks of nature. This will fundamentally change the way materials and devices will be produced in the future. The ability to synthesize nanoscaie building blocks with precisely controlled size and composition and to then assemble them into larger structures with unique properties and functions will revolutionize segments of the materials and device industry. The benefits that nanostructuring can bring include lighter, stronger, and programmable materials; reductions in life cycle costs through lower failure rates; innovative devices based on new principles and architectures; nanosensors and nanoprocessors; and use of molecular/cluster manufacturing, which takes advantage of assembly at the nanoscaie level for a given purpose.

Another significant breakthrough technology that will change the way we develop systems is our work in biotechnology. Biology has developed unique materials and processes that may be exploited in non-biological systems. Our research is focused on studying the science necessary to incorporate biological components and organisms into Air Force systems. For example, in biomemetics, we research the adaptation of natural biological sensor in reptiles. The natural infrared sensors in reptiles do not need to be cooled. We hope to adapt this biological process to Air Force sensor applications that normally require cryogenic cooling.


*******************

Article 257

The Solar Energy Technology program focuses research on advanced solar devices that can provide the nation with a widely available domestic energy resource to help meet electricity needs and reduce the stress on our critical electricity infrastructure. Efforts are directed in the interrelated areas of Photovoltaics, Solar Heating and Lighting, and Concentrating Solar Power. The FY 2005 budget request for Solar Technology is $80.3 million. This is roughly equivalent to the unencumbered amount of the FY 2004 appropriation of $83.4 million, which included $3.6 million earmarked to specific recipients.

Photovoltaic research and development seeks to reduce the manufacturing cost of highly reliable photovoltaic modules from $2.10/watt in 2003 to $1.85/watt by FY 2005. The program is focused on next-generation technologies such as thin-film photovoltaic cells and leap-frog technologies such as polymers and nanostructures. Systems engineering efforts seek to increase system durability and develop technologies to improve interconnections with the electric grid. The FY 2005 request of $75.4 million for photovoltaic includes: $30 million for critical fundamental research, including $2.1 million to equip the new Science and Technology Facility at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory; $29 million for advanced materials, including thin films and next generation materials with potential for dramatic cost reductions; and $16.4 million for technology development efforts to improve reliability of the entire system, including testing, verification, and deployment activities for grid- connected applications and analysis of private sector commercialization options.

The FY 2005 $2.9 million request for Solar Heating and Lighting will support efforts on hot water and space heating for residential and commercial buildings in collaboration with industry partners. The program uses new formulations of lightweight polymer materials to modernize solar water heaters, making them easier to install, while lowering the cost of solar water heating in non-freezing climates. Last year, we did not request any funding for the Concentrating Solar Power (CSP). In light of recent studies we sought from an independent engineering firm, a draft of which was reviewed by the National Research Council, the Department proposes $2 million for Concentrating Solar Power in FY 2005 to support a more thorough investigation of the appropriate R&D course needed to realize the potential for CSP. The FY 2005 budget request will maintain essential facilities and support work with several States on the establishment of 1,000 MW of Concentrating Solar Power in the Southwest, while developing a comprehensive program plan to help inform the FY 2006 budget development process and a longer term R&D plan. ZERO ENERGY BUILDINGS

*******************

Article 258

The Basic Energy Sciences (BES) program is a principal sponsor of fundamental research for the Nation in the areas of materials sciences and engineering, chemistry, geosciences, and bioscience as it relates to energy. This research underpins the DOE missions in energy, environment, and national security; advances energy- related basic science on a broad front; and provides unique user facilities for the scientific community and industry.

For FY 2005, the Department requests $1.1 billion for BES including $208.6 million to continue to advance nanoscale science through atomic- and molecular-level studies in materials sciences and engineering, chemistry, geosciences, and energy biosciences. This supports Project Engineering Design (PED) and construction of four Nanoscale Science Research Centers (NSRCs) and a Major Item of Equipment for the fifth and final NSRC. NSRCs are user facilities for the synthesis, processing, fabrication, and analysis of materials at the nanoscale. The request also includes $80.5 million for construction and $33.1 million for other project costs for the Spallation Neutron Source, and $54.1 million for research, development, PED, and long lead procurement of the Linac Coherent Light Source, a revolutionary x-ray laser light source. With these tools, we will be able to understand how the compositions of materials affect their properties, watch proteins fold, see chemical reactions, and design matter for desired outcomes.

The FY 2005 budget request also includes $29.2 million for activities that support the President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative. This research program is based on the BES workshop report "Basic Research Needs for the Hydrogen Economy," which highlights the enormous gap between our present capabilities and those required for a competitive hydrogen economy.

*******************

Article 259

The Command has established a formal relationship with the TRADOC Futures Center (FC). This relationship insures the integration of technology into holistic Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leader Development, and Personnel (DOTMLPF) solutions for the warfighter. The RDECOM becomes the entry point for the FC for all Army Material Command (AMC) Science and Technology (S&T) products through multiple channels that includes resident liaison officers assuring that the FC is cognizant of emerging technology enablers and the potential to deliver capabilities to the warfighter. The FC/RDECOM team provides a decision making framework for Army leadership by analyzing S&T developments linked to operational capability to validate the S&T investment. The Command plays an integral role with the FC in addressing shortfalls in future operating capabilities (FOCs) and providing the technologies to assure that warfighter capability goals are met. The Command's technology integrated product teams (IPT), including strong FC participation, insure that all pursued efforts will result in operationally relevant solutions to warfighter requirements and that the warfighter requirements are met. The focus for this new command has been in the power and energy, lethality, robotics, modeling and simulation, countermine, supportability, survivability, networking, nanotechnology, and biotechnology areas.

The role of RDECOM is to provide a single integrated strategy toward the research, development and engineering of materiel solutions addressing user requirements. One major player in the strategy is that of experimentation. The linking of experimentation insures that RDECOM technology demonstrations are operationally relevant, while providing a venue to develop operational concepts for new technologies in FC experiments. By adhering to a Code of Best Practices for Experimentation, and institutionalizing the system engineering processes and disciplines throughout the RDECs, the Command provides a broad base of consistent and innovative approaches to developing the DOTMLPF solutions for the warfighter today and tomorrow. Using a variety of tools, ranging from hardware platforms, through virtual simulations, in either stand-alone or integrated mode, the centers perform a variety of experiments, from discovery, through hypothesis testing, and demonstration, leading to a developed and refined military capability. One of the tools that the Command will use is the Modeling Architecture for Technology, Research and Experimentation (MATREX) STO, that is developing a persistent, secure, distributed and reusable environment where models can be "plugged" into an established architecture as needed and then "played" for engineering analysis, evaluations, supportability and technology trade-offs in support of Army transformation. The MATREX will be a key enabler of Simulation and Modeling for Acquisition, Requirements and Technology (SMART) initiatives throughout the command and the Army that will enable the Army to field equipment to the warfighters more speedily. Together with the Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) and the Army Test and Evaluation Command (ATEC), the RDECOM plays a vital role in experimentation and development, from concept to fielding.


*******************

Article 260

The Institute for Creative Technologies (ICT) at the University of Southern CA continues to be an excellent example of how these Centers attack Army problems with new and different views. ICT leverages academic and Hollywood expertise to perform fundamental research in simulation environments and virtual human depiction for training, mission planning and rehearsal. It has worked with the Training and Doctrine Command's (TRADOC), Infantry School at Fort Benning to develop cognitive leadership training aids that leverage both Microsoft's X-Box game console (Full Spectrum Warrior) and "gamer" PC's (Full Spectrum Commander). In fact, Full Spectrum Commander is currently being adapted for Afghan National Army training in Operation Enduring Freedom.

The Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies (ISN) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology focuses and adapts nanotechnology research to significantly enhance soldier survivability. Investment areas are nanofibers for lighter materials, active/reactive ballistic protection (to solve the energy dissipation problem), microclimate conditioning, signature management, biomonitoring/ triage and active control components.

Last month we opened the Institute for Collaborative Biotechnologies (ICB) at the University of California, Santa Barbara. The ICB integrates biosciences with the physical and engineering sciences to provide an understanding of the biological construction of novel materials such as biologically- derived, functional electronic, magnetic and optical materials; integrated multi-modality sensing; biologically-derived network concepts; and, sense and respond actuation capabilities. This will influence the development of technology that improves military capabilities in the areas of precision strike, signature management, network design and implementation and "identification of friend or foe."

*******************

Article 261

BREAKTHROUGH TECHNOLOGIES

In recent years, we have all come to appreciate the success of unmanned vehicles. We hear over and over again the tremendous operational advantages that systems such as Predator and Global Hawk are bringing to warfighters from all Services. Over the first two decades of the 21st Century, advances in micro unmanned air vehicles will provide significant additional capabilities to our Armed Forces. Micro air vehicles utilize advances in microscale aerodynamics, electronic miniaturization, munitions, and propulsion to package sensory and weapons payloads into highly reliable, on-demand systems. These systems will provide unprecedented levels of situational awareness in the most severe threat environments. Whether we are operating in urban environments, sensing bio-chemical dispersion through the atmosphere, or looking over the next hill, our troops will have the awareness needed to fight and survive. These systems will provide the persistent intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance in high threat environments needed by our troops on the ground and our airmen in the air. When called for, swarms of these vehicles will cooperate together to generate both lethal and nonlethal effects.

In the next 50 years, advancements in nanotechnology will provide the greatest change in how man operates since the invention of powered flight itself. Nanotechnology is a science and a series of disciplines that works at the atomic and molecular level to create structures, materials, and devices through improved molecular organization. By working with elements at the level of nanometer scale, we have access to the building blocks of nature. This will fundamentally change the way materials and devices will be produced in the future. The ability to synthesize nanoscale building blocks with precisely controlled size and composition and to then assemble them into larger structures with unique properties and functions will revolutionize segments of the materials and device industry. The benefits that nanostructuring can bring include lighter, stronger, and programmable materials; reductions in life cycle costs through lower failure rates; innovative devices based on new principles and architectures; nanosensors and nanoprocessors; and use of molecular/cluster manufacturing, which takes advantage of assembly at the nanoscale level for a given purpose.

Another significant breakthrough technology that will change the way we develop systems is our work in biotechnology. Biology has developed unique materials and processes that may be exploited in non-biological systems. Our research is focused on studying the science necessary to incorporate biological components and organisms into Air Force systems. For example, in biomemetics, we research the adaptation of natural biological sensor in reptiles. The natural infrared sensors in reptiles do not need to be cooled. We hope to adapt this biological process to Air Force sensor applications that normally require cryogenic cooling.


*******************

Article 262

For many years now, Chairman Domenici and I have watched as the last two administrations have sent ever-escalating budget requests up here for National Institutes of Health that have far outstripped the increase request for the Office of Science.

The imbalance between funding for the physical sciences and the biological sciences was getting to be staggering, particularly because of both disciplines relying on each other so much.

I think this is shortsighted in the long term.

I'm pleased with the work that you are doing on genomics, and with the very impressive pace of the nanotechnology program. Drew Willis (ph) of my staff and Tammy Peren of (ph) Senator Domenici's staff visited Lawrence Berkeley National Labs last month and were surprised at the rapid progress the lab is making on the molecular foundry.

You have been on the job now for nearly two years, and I hope you are enjoying your time in one of the greatest jobs our federal government has to offer.

*******************

Article 263

Then the thought occurs to me that that obviously would apply in regards to the priorities of the S&T community, in regards to lessons learned and where we go and what we provide the war-fighters as soon as we possibly can, anticipating what we would need, based on the best intelligence that we have.

SEGA: Within the last few months, under the National Security Technology Council, has been formed a subcommittee of national security research and development. I co-chair, along with Dr. Kerr (inaudible) and that includes an interagency group beyond CIA and DOD, to have the interagency participation. And that's under the OFTP sponsorship. So there is that interagency mechanism. What I had referred to earlier on these assessments was more in detail. For example, nanotechnology is looked at...

ROBERTS: Yes.

SEGA: ... to better inform our science and technology investments for DOD needs, but also help inform what investments we should be making for research and development for the intelligence function as a customer.

ROBERTS: OK, I'm sort of an event-oriented person. I think, you know, most senators are. I'm not a chart guy, although we do have awards for the best chart when we get into that, but the lights don't go off or you lose members.

*******************

Article 264

DR. MARBURGER: This is a big question. But I -

MR. FALLOWS: Give us your summary thoughts.

DR. MARBURGER: Right. Well, first of all, the public understanding of science is really deficient as much in the question of how science works and what science is as it is in the details of science. I mean, the details of science are one thing; something about nanotechnology or how cells work and at the arcana of particle physics and dark energy, and there is a lot of interest in those things, I think. The science shows and many popularizations of science explaining those things is important, but the public hears less about, and I think knows and understands less about the machinery of science. How does it work? What is science after all? Is it a method? Is it a collection of facts? Is it the truth? And science is perceived to have great power, I think, correctly because it does provide the infrastructure for technologies that have transformed our society and a lot of interests flock to that power and try to sign on to it or use it in some way to enhance their own. So you see ads with people in white coats and stethoscopes around their necks and you see testimonials - various kinds that are all attempts to sign on to the power symbolism of science and there's a perception that this will help them sell their thing.

*******************

Article 265

Finally, we need to continue to modernize and recapitalize our information technology infrastructure. To leverage our information superiority, the Air Force is pursuing a modernization strategy and information technology investments, which target a common network infrastructure and employ enterprise services and shared capabilities. Science and Technology (S&T) Our investment in science and technology has and continues to underpin our modernization and recapitalization program. Similar to our applied-technology acquisition efforts, the Air Force's capability-based focus produces an S&T vision that supports the warfighter.

The Air Force S&T program fosters development of joint warfighting capabilities and integrated technologies, consistent with DoD and national priorities. We will provide a long-.38 term, stable investment in S&T in areas that will immediately benefit existing systems and in transformational technologies that will improve tomorrow's Air Force. Many Air Force S&T programs, such as directed energy, hypersonics, laser-based communications, and the emerging field of nanotechnology, show promise for joint warfighting capabilities. Other technology areas, such as miniaturization of space platforms and space proximity operations, also show promise in the future. Through developments like these, the Air Force S&T program will advance joint warfighting capabilities and the Air Force vision of an integrated air and space force capable of responsive and decisive global engagement.

Capabilities-Based Acquisition/Transforming Business Practices

To achieve our vision of a flexible, responsive, and capabilities- based expeditionary force, we are transforming how we conceive, plan, develop, acquire, and sustain weapons systems. Our Agile Acquisition initiative emphasizes speed and credibility; we must deliver what we promise -- on time and on budget. Our goal is to deliver affordable, sustainable capabilities that meet joint warfighters' operational needs. We continue to improve our acquisition system -- breaking down organizational barriers, changing work culture through aggressive training, and reforming processes with policies that encourage innovation and collaboration. Already, we are:

*******************

Article 266

Clearly demonstrating the President's commitment to priority investments for the future, Federal R&D spending in the FY 2005 Budget is the greatest share of GDP in over 10 years. In fact, the last time Federal R&D has been over 1% of GDP was in 1993. And even more noteworthy, FY 2005 non-defense R&D is the highest percentage of GDP since 1982.

Not all programs can or should receive equal priority, and this budget reflects choices consistent with recommendations from numerous expert sources. The priority programs in the Federal R&D budget build upon exciting areas of scientific discovery from hydrogen energy and nanotechnology to the basic processes of living organisms, the fundamental properties of matter, and a new vision of sustained space exploration. In particular, this budget responds to recommendations by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) and others about needs in physical science and engineering.

The budget also reflects an extensive process of consultation among the Federal agencies, OMB, and OSTP, to thoroughly evaluate the agency programs and priorities, interagency collaborations, and directions for the future. The National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) continues to provide a valuable mechanism to facilitate this interagency coordination. This process of collaborative review resulted in guidance to agencies issued by OSTP and OMB last June, concerning their program planning, evaluation, and budget preparation, and culminating in the budget you see before you today.

An important component of this budget is an increase in funding for education and workforce development, which are essential components of all Federal R&D activities and continue to be high priorities for the Administration. As President Bush has stated, "America's growing economy is also a changing economy. As technology transforms the way almost every job is done, America becomes more productive, and workers need new skills."

As in previous years, this R&D budget highlights the importance of collaborations among multiple Federal agencies working together on broad themes. I will describe three high-priority R&D initiatives for FY 2005: (1) a cluster of programs fostering innovation, which includes manufacturing R&D, networking and information technology, and the National Nanotechnology Initiative; (2) physical sciences and engineering enhancement, which includes many programs at the National Science Foundation and NASA; and (3) a better understanding of the global environment and climate change.

Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP):

The Office of Science and Technology Policy, which I lead, has primary responsibility in the White House for prioritizing and recommending Federal R&D, as well as for coordinating interagency research initiatives. The FY 2005 request for OSTP is $7,081,000, which is a 1.4% increase from the FY 2004 enacted level. Some of the changes for this fiscal year include increases for personnel, rental payments to GSA, and supplies, materials, and equipment. The budget request also contains a decrease of $48,000 in communications due to a realignment in telecommunications infrastructure costs to the Office of Administration.

+++++++++++++++++++

The budget provides over $1 billion for NSF awards that emphasize the mathematical and physical sciences, including mathematics, physics, chemistry, and astronomy. These programs have increased by 31% since 2001.

NSF participates strongly in this Administration's cross agency priority programs in information- and nano-technology, climate science, and education. This budget provides $761 million for NSF's role in the National Information Technology R&D initiative, focusing on long-term computer science research and applications; $210 million for climate change science; and $305 million for NSF's lead role in the National Nanotechnology Initiative, a 20% increase from the 2004 level.

Science and math education is strongly supported in this budget, with funds for 5,500 graduate research fellowships and traineeships, an increase of 1,800 since 2001. Annual stipends in these programs have increased to a projected $30,000, compared with $18,000 in 2001.

The redirection of the Math and Science Partnerships (MSP) in the Department of Education reflects a desire to focus the program on integrating research-proven practices into classroom settings. The Budget requests $349 million total for the joint MSP program in 2005, a $61 million increase over the 2004 level. This increase in the MSP program is a key component of the President's Jobs for the 21 st Century Initiative. This initiative will better prepare high school students to enter higher education or the workforce since 80% of the fastest-growing jobs in theU.S. require higher education and many require math and science skills. $80 million of the overall program remains in NSF to continue ongoing commitments.

Science infrastructure funding, an investment in the future, is provided to initiate construction for the National Ecological Observation Network (NEON), the Scientific Ocean Drilling Vessel, and a set of experiments in fundamental physics called "Rare Symmetry Violating Processes" (RSVP).

National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA):

The President has committed the United States to a sustainable, affordable program of human and robotic exploration of the solar system. This vision supports advanced technology development with multiple uses that will accelerate advances in robotics, autonomous and fault tolerant systems, human-machine interface, materials, life support systems, and spur novel applications of nanotechnology and micro-devices. All of these advances, while pushing the frontiers of space, are likely to spur new industries and applications that will improve life on Earth.

To support this and other NASA missions, the Budget requests $16.2 billion in FY2005 and $87 billion over five years, an increase of $1 billion over the FY 2004 five-year plan. NASA will reallocate $11 billion within this five-year amount toward new exploration activities. Robotic trailblazers to the Moon will begin in 2008, followed by a human return to the Moon no later than 2020. The pace of exploration will be driven by available resources, technology readiness, and our ongoing experience.


+++++++++++++++++++

The FY 2005 budget provides nearly three quarters of a billion dollars for EPA science and technology. The EPA is enhancing its overall scientific program to ensure that its efforts tosafeguard human health and the environment are based on the best scientific and technical information.

One example of this enhancement was announced February 18 by Administrator Leavitt when he signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Energy Secretary Abraham. The purpose of the MOU is to expand the research collaboration of both agencies in the conduct of basic and applied research related to: (1) environmental protection, environment and energy technology, sustainable energy use, ecological monitoring, material flows, and environmental and facilities clean-up; (2) high-performance computing and modeling; and (3) emerging scientific opportunities in genomics, nanotechnology, remote sensing, bioinformatics, land restoration, material sciences, molecular profiling, and information technology, as well as other areas providing promising opportunities for future joint efforts by EPA's and DOE's research communities.

Two particular areas of note in the EPA request are homeland security research and water quality monitoring. EPA's homeland security research program will result in more efficient and effective threat detection and response for water systems. Additionally, EPA will develop practices and procedures that provide elected officials, decision makers, the public, and first responders with rapid risk assessment protocols for chemical and biological threats. On water quality, EPA will address the integration of different scales and types of monitoring to target effective water quality management actions and document effectiveness of water quality management programs.

+++++++++++++++++++

PRIORITY INITIATIVES

The 2005 budget highlights high-priority interagency initiatives described briefly below. These initiatives are coordinated through the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) for which my office has responsibility for day-to-day operations. The Council prepares research and development strategies that cross agency boundaries to form a consolidated and coordinated investment package.

Innovation - The FY 2005 Budget calls for research and development investments to promote technological innovation in high-priority areas including manufacturing technology; information technology, and nanotechnology; the creation of incentives for increased private sector R&D funding; and stronger intellectual property protections. These investments will stimulate innovation and enhance U.S. competitiveness.

- Manufacturing Technology. The President's Budget requests increased funding for a number of programs that strengthen manufacturing innovation, including those within the National Science Foundation's Design, Manufacture and Industrial Innovation Division--up 27 percent since 2001 to $66 million--and the Manufacturing Engineering Laboratory at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)--up 50 percent since 2001 to $30 million. The FY 2005 Budget sustains funding for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership at the Department of Commerce at the 2004 level and proposes to implement reforms to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the program.

- Networking and Information Technology. Since 2001, funding for Networking and Information Technology R&D (NITRD) has increased by 14 percent to over $2 billion, and the R&D funded by this effort has laid the foundation for many of the technological innovations that have driven the computer sector forward. The President's FY 2005 Budget sustains this significant investment. One half of the NITRD budget is controlled by this Subcommittee and you have increased the funding of that part of the program by 26% since FY 2001.

- Nanotechnology. The President's Budget includes $1 billion in funding to increase understanding, and develop applications based upon, the unique properties of matter at the nanoscale - that is, at the level of clusters of atoms and molecules. Funding for nanotechnology R&D has more than doubled since 2001. Nearly 35% of the President's request for funding of the National Nanotechnology Initiative is within this Subcommittee's purview. I want to thank this Subcommittee for its recognition of the importance of the nanotechnology R&D under your jurisdiction, which has increased by 67% since FY 2001.

Physical Sciences and Engineering - Research in the physical sciences and engineering is an essential component of space exploration, nanotechnology, networking and information technologies, biomedical applications, and defense technologies. Physical science research leads to a better understanding of nature and, indeed, our universe. Research in this area also complements a number of critical investments in other areas such as those being made in the life sciences. The 2005 Budget strengthens our nation's commitment to the physical sciences and engineering, devoting significant resources to this priority area. The policy priority regarding the physical sciences responds to input and recommendations from PCAST.



*******************

Article 267

Today's science and engineering challenges are more complex. Increasingly, they involve multi-investigator research, as well as a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary research. So, increasing award size and duration--across the board--remains one of NSF's top long-term priorities. In FY 2005 the average annual award will increase by $3,000. That brings the total increase to 58 percent since 1998.

Opportunities to advance knowledge have never been greater than they are today. NSF invests in emerging areas of research that hold exceptional potential to strengthen U.S. world leadership in areas of global economic and social importance. This year, NSF is requesting funding for five priority areas with very promising research horizons: biocomplexity, nanoscale science and engineering, mathematical sciences, human and social dynamics, and the 21st century workforce.

Biocomplexity in the Environment explores the complex interactions among organisms and their environments at all scales, and through space and time. This fundamental research on the links between ecology, diversity, the evolution of biological systems, and many other factors will help us better understand and, in time, predict environmental change. In FY 2005, Biocomplexity in the Environment will emphasize research on aquatic systems.

The Human and Social Dynamics priority area will explore a wide range of topics. These include individual decision-making and risk, the dynamics of human behavior, and global agents of change - from democratization, to globalization, to war. Support will also be provided for methodological capabilities in spatial social science and for instrumentation and data resources infrastructure.

Mathematics is the language of science, and is a powerful tool of discovery. The Mathematical Sciences priority areas will focus on fundamental research in the mathematical and statistical sciences, interdisciplinary research connecting math with other fields of science and engineering, and targeted investments in training.

NSF's investment in Nanoscale Science and Engineering targets the fundamental research that underlies nanotechnology--which very likely will be the next "transformational" technology.

Investments in this priority area will emphasize research on nanoscale structures and phenomena, and quantum control. NSF is the lead agency for the government-wide National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI). NSF is requesting $305 million, an increase of nearly $52 million or 20 percent. This is by far NSF's largest priority area investment.

To operate in an increasingly complex world, we have to produce a general workforce that is scientifically and technologically capable, and a science and engineering workforce that is world class by any measure.

*******************

Article 268

Our investment in science and technology has and continues to underpin our modernization and recapitalization program. Similar to our applied-technology acquisition efforts, the Air Force's capability-based focus produces an S&T vision that supports the warfighter.

The Air Force S&T program fosters development of joint warfighting capabilities and integrated technologies, consistent with DoD and national priorities. We will provide a long-term, stable investment in S&T in areas that will immediately benefit existing systems and in transformational technologies that will improve tomorrow's Air Force. Many Air Force S&T programs, such as directed energy, hypersonics, laser-based communications, and the emerging field of nanotechnology, show promise for joint warfighting capabilities. Other technology areas, such as miniaturization of space platforms and space proximity operations, also show promise in the future. Through developments like these, the Air Force S&T program will advance joint warfighting capabilities and the Air Force vision of an integrated air and space force capable of responsive and decisive global engagement.

Capabilities-Based Acquisition/Transforming Business Practices

To achieve our vision of a flexible, responsive, and capabilities- based expeditionary force, we are transforming how we conceive, plan, develop, acquire, and sustain weapons systems. Our Agile Acquisition initiative emphasizes speed and credibility; we must deliver what we promise -- on time and on budget. Our goal is to deliver affordable, sustainable capabilities that meet joint warfighters' operational needs.

*******************

Article 269

In other words, the front end of logistics is wholly incompatible with the front end of warfare - the objectives are different and the metrics are different. The magnitude of this dysfunction is becoming increasingly apparent, and transformational efforts such as "Sense and Respond" are first steps to move the Department in a new direction in logistics.

We are also likely to see a broadened approach to space. No one can compete with us in space - the way we do it. The fact of the matter is that our business model for space has been very, very good for us. We've done marvelous things and we've been enormously successful. But, over time the landscape changes. In this case, the technological context has changed making movement to an alternative business model possible and desirable. Cost per kilogram on orbit is a problem. However, capability per kilogram on orbit is soaring due to advances in information technology, and if we were to apply nanotechnology to space structures, the costs would likely plummet. It is time to reach for other business models. For example, the use of micro satellites makes possible alternative forms of lift into space. It also makes possible exploitation of the concept of the shared aperture or the sparse aperture where you accrue a larger capability as a consequence of networking many small things - and gain robustness in the process. These factors are not lost on potential competitors. Because we're moving into the age of the small, the fast, and the many, it is time to apply some of this thinking into our approach to space.

*******************

Article 270

Every major report on long-term economic growth sites the major need for increase in scientific research and a smarter workforce. Strategic research are the foundations of future economic growth. The jobs of tomorrow will come from the research of today, but not with a 3 percent increase.

Nanotech is a good example. It could be the next breakthrough. We're already seeing it in carbon nanotubes and nanocircuits. Nanotech offers the ability to rejuvenate our manufacturing sector, create new high-paying quality jobs.

I want to know, of course, in our conversation, where we stand with nanotech.

Let's move on, though, to education.

Gosh, I was so troubled to see that the education component was cut by 18 percent compared to last year. This is the time we should be increasing our commitment to education, not cutting it, and not rearranging programs between NSF and other agencies.

+++++++++++++++++++

The cut to the tech talent, or STEP program, also disappoints me. At a time where the number of U.S. undergraduates in engineering and math is declining, a 40 percent reduction in this program is puzzling.

I also have a strong interest in nanotechnology. The '05 request provides an increase of $52 million over the '04 level.

There's a tremendous amount of excitement about nanotechnology because of its far-reaching benefits, from computers to manufacturing processes to agriculture to medicine. As NSF is the lead agency in federal nanotech research, I'm encouraged to see the request reflect the importance of this emerging research field.

But despite the promises of nanotechnoogy, there is a growing public anxiety and nascent opposition to nanotechnology, according to a recent Washington Post report.

I agree with the view that nano is the foundation for the next industrial revolution. I'm troubled with the Post's view that, quote, "If nano supporters play their cards wrong by belittling public fears, the industry could find itself mired in a costly public relations debacle, even worse than the one that turned genetically engineered crops into frankenfood," close quotes.

*******************

Article 271

Many adversaries have demonstrated skill in misinformation and disinformation campaigns that target the United States and third parties to undermine US interests. The threat to computer networks is extremely dynamic, with growing capabilities that are easily proliferated. Numerous distributed denial of service techniques, to include viruses and worms, could be used to shut down or disrupt computers in the lead up to or during a conflict. Most disturbing is that the basic tools are readily available on the Internet and can be customized by adversaries to fit their needs. We expect the IO threat to grow.

General Technology Proliferation. The situation remains unchanged from my testimony last year. Advances in information technology, biotechnology, communications, materials, micro-manufacturing, and weapon development are having a significant impact on the way militaries and terrorist groups organize, plan, train and fight. Globalization of"R&D intensive" capabilities, such as computer hardware and software, biotechnology and nanotechnology, is allowing smaller militaries, groups, and even individuals' access to capabilities previously limited to those of the major powers. Integration, advancements and unanticipated applications of emerging technologies make the future and, correspondingly, our military strengths and vulnerabilities, extremely difficult to predict. While DIA cannot identify with specificity, some aspects of our military advantage will erode. Technological surprise is of great concern and we are watching this area intensely.

Global Defense Spending. Non-US global defense spending which we reported last year dropped 50% over the past decade, will likely increase during the next five years. The improving global economy is allowing increased funding at moderate rates. Defense spending will enable countries to pursue selective force modernization.

*******************

Article 272

At the United Nations Millennium Summit in September 2000, world leaders adopted the Millennium Declaration, a set of common objectives that focus on the central challenges of our time. At its heart are the eight Millennium Development Goals (www.un.org/millenniumgoals), which range from halving extreme poverty to halting the spread of HIV/AIDS and providing universal primary education, all to be met by the target date of 2015. They form a set of simple but powerful objectives that every man and woman in the street, from New York to Nairobi to New Delhi, can easily support and understand. 

But so far, progress toward reaching these goals has been mixed at best. There are many reasons, including slow growth in the world economy, slow progress in reforms among developing countries, and inadequate support from developed countries. What is needed is a true partnership of developed and developing countries-a partnership that includes S&T. Cooperation among the scientific and technological communities of different countries and regions yields a large collective reservoir of knowledge and expertise. If every nation gains full access to this broader world community of science and has the opportunity to develop an independent science capability, its public can engage in a candid dialogue about the benefits and risks of new technologies, such as genetically engineered organisms or nanotechnology, so that informed decisions can be made about their introduction into our lives.

We are fortunate to live in an age that offers new opportunities for involving all nations in the great adventure of S&T. New models of science education programmes for upgrading educational opportunities are being developed everywhere, such as the Programa Amigos de la Ciencia of Chile (www.gener.cl/comunidad/ciencia.shtml ), which teaches science to children from impoverished backgrounds and encourages them to pursue scientific studies at the secondary level; or the science education reform model of the U.S. National Science Resources Center (www.si.edu/nsrc), which provides hands-on linkage of students' newly acquired skills to their everyday lives. New forms of communication now allow scientists in even the least developed nations to join in research collaboration with colleagues in neighboring countries or on the other side of the world. For instance, the London- based Science and Development Network (www.SciDev.net) offers up-to- date information on science-related issues to the developing world and builds regional networks of institutions.


*******************

Article 273

Around the world, the benefits of even basic education are much greater. In a poor country, one year of schooling tends to add 10 to 15 percent a year to the earning capacity of the children who get it, boys and girls, in countries open to the education and employment of girls and women. But 130 million young people in the world never go to school a single day, and that understates the problem because there are many places where nominally go to school, but their education is not particularly useful.

If you take health care--and I just came from that marvelous Cornell medical facility here--I spent a lot of money, the American people's tax money, on biomedical research, specifically on sequencing the human genome and on trying to merge medical research with high-technology research through nanotechnology, super-micro technology that will with the sequencing of the genome and its practical applications soon give us diagnostic mechanisms that will make virtually all cancers detectable at submicroscopic levels and will give young women sometime in the next several years the prospect of giving birth to babies that will have life expectancies of 90 years or so in countries with strong health systems.

But, this year, 10 million children will die of completely preventable childhood diseases. One in four of all the people who perish on Earth this year from all causes will die of AIDS--100 percent preventable--where there is medicine that turns it from a death sentence to a chronic illness; TB, malaria--treatable with medicine; and infections related to diarrhea, most of them are little children who never got a single clean glass of water in their lives. They, too, are part of interdependence.

*******************

Article 274

The President's FY2005 budget supports the NASA Aeronautics Blueprint with a request for $919.2 M. This maintains the funding level for Aeronautics that was in the President's FY2004 budget plan. The presence of FY2004 earmarks in the budget numbers creates the impression that reductions have been made to content, which is not the case. The Blueprint identifies challenges facing aviation today and describes a vision of technology advances that will help solve these challenges. These advances will also create a whole new level of system performance and revolutionize civil and military aviation. The proposed FY2005 budget request includes the development of the highest priority (safety/security, noise, and emissions) technologies and directly supports the vision espoused by the Blueprint. To further emphasize the priority of Aeronautics, a new NASA enterprise specifically focused on Aeronautics has been created. Benefits to Science and Technology In addition to the programs described above, two additional benefits for science and technology are anticipated from the President's vision. First, the technology development necessary to carry out this vision will accelerate advances in robotics, autonomous and fault tolerant systems, human-machine interface, materials, life support systems, and spur novel applications of nanotechnology and micro- devices. All of these advances, while pushing the frontiers of space, are likely to spur new industries and applications that will improve life on Earth. Second, articulating the human journey into the cosmos, with clear and challenging milestones, will inspire future generations of young people to study math, science, and engineering. A framework and a vision for a sustainable exploration, coupled with intellectually stimulating problems, is a substantial asset in the continuing campaign to spark interest in science and technology in each new generation. Conclusion This vision has consequences. It implies that we optimize not for a single mission but for the steady accumulation of technologies and capabilities that provide a base for multiple operations. It emphasizes the role of robotics, of ground-based research, and of system thinking. And it places the International Space Station in a larger context of preparation for the journey of exploration. The vision articulates the purpose for humans in space. We have a vigorous and highly productive program of non-human space operations for scientific, military, and commercial purposes. These "robotic" missions have their own strong justification, and will contribute to the achievement of the vision for humans. The philosophy of going step by step, preparing for the future on a broad front, introduces human capabilities only as appropriate, keeping in mind that the ultimate goal is to permit humans to operate routinely on missions where they are needed. The vision is good for science. Enabling this vision will lead to a greater understanding of our place in the universe, the history of the solar system, and push technology on many fronts that are important to the economic security of this Nation. It will also open up new possibilities for future science missions that have more aggressive goals. 
*******************

Article 275

REP. SMITH: Thank you very much, Dr. Marburger.

And thank you, Mr. Chairman.

REP. BOEHLERT: Ms. Lofgren.

REP. ZOE LOFGREN (D-CA): Thank you, Mr. Chairman and thank you, witnesses, for being here today. I have a bunch of questions and we don't have a lot of time. So I may follow up in writing with some of the questions that I have. But one of the things that I'm puzzling over is your new accounting question and how to figure out really what's happening on the ground in the proposed budget and taking a look at Ames Research Center which I know that you value and you visited on many occasions for the nanotechnology work they're doing in robotics and the like.

I see a $90 million reduction in the proposed budget and it's in something called service pool. Now I think $55 million of that is the wind tunnel that's going away, but I'm not clear how the other $35 million -- is that a programmatic cut? Exactly what is that? That's question number one.


*******************

Article 276

Benefits to Science and Technology

In addition to the programs described above, two additional benefits for science and technology are anticipated from the President's vision. First, the technology development necessary to carry out this vision will accelerate advances in robotics, autonomous and fault tolerant systems, human-machine interface, materials, life support systems, and spur novel applications of nanotechnology and micro-devices. All of these advances, while pushing the frontiers of space, are likely to spur new industries and applications that will improve life on Earth.

Second, articulating the human journey into the cosmos, with clear and challenging milestones, will inspire future generations of young people to study math, science, and engineering. A framework and a vision for a sustainable exploration, coupled with intellectually stimulating problems, is a substantial asset in the continuing campaign to spark interest in science and technology in each new generation.

*******************

Article 277

I must say the presence of FY '04 earmarks in the budget numbers creates the impression that reductions have been made to content in this program, which is not the case. We are committed to aeronautics and NASA has created a new enterprise specifically focused on aeronautics within its administrative structure.

The technology development necessary to execute and implement the president's vision will accelerate advances in robotics, autonomous and fault tolerant systems, human-machine interface, materials, life support systems and spur novel applications of nanotechnology and microdevices.

And finally, a framework and a vision for a sustainable exploration coupled with intellectually stimulating problems is a powerful asset in our continuing campaign to spark interest in science and technology among young people.


*******************

Article 278

THE PRESIDENT'S FY 2005 R&D BUDGET

The President's FY 2005 budget request commits 13.5% of total discretionary outlays to R&D, the highest level in 37 years. Not since 1968 during the Apollo program have we seen an investment in research and development of this magnitude. Of this amount, the budget commits 5.7% of total discretionary outlays to non- defense R&D, the third highest level in 25 years.

The programs in the Federal R&D budget continue to build upon exciting areas of scientific discovery from hydrogen energy and nanotechnology to the basic processes of living organisms, the fundamental properties of matter, and a new vision of sustained space exploration. Not all programs can or should receive equal priority, and this budget reflects priority choices consistent with recommendations from numerous expert sources. In particular, this budget responds to recommendations by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) and others about needs in physical science and engineering.

The budget also reflects an extensive process of consultation among the Federal agencies, OMB, and OSTP, to understand thoroughly the agency programs and priorities, interagency collaborations, and directions for the future. The National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) continues to provide a valuable mechanism to facilitate this interagency coordination. This process resulted in guidance to agencies issued by OSTP and OMB last June, concerning their program planning, evaluation, and budget preparation, and culminating in the budget you see before you today.


*******************

Article 279

Opportunities to advance knowledge have never been greater than they are today. NSF invests in emerging areas of research that hold exceptional potential to strengthen U.S. world leadership in areas of global economic and social importance. This year, we are requesting funding for five priority areas with very promising research horizons: biocomplexity, nanoscale science and engineering, mathematical sciences, human and social dynamics, and the 21st century workforce.

Biocomplexity in the Environment explores the complex interactions among organisms and their environments at all scales, and through space and time. This fundamental research on the links between ecology, diversity, the evolution of biological systems, and many other factors will help us better understand and, in time, predict environmental change. In FY 2005, Biocomplexity in the Environment will emphasize research on aquatic systems.

The Human and Social Dynamics priority area will explore a wide range of topics. These include individual decision-making and risk, the dynamics of human behavior, and global agents of change - from democratization, to globalization, to war. Support will also be provided for methodological capabilities in spatial social science and for instrumentation and data resources infrastructure.

Mathematics is the language of science, and is a powerful tool of discovery. The Mathematical Sciences priority areas will focus on fundamental research in the mathematical and statistical sciences, interdisciplinary research connecting math with other fields of science and engineering, and targeted investments in training.

NSF's investment in Nanoscale Science and Engineering targets the fundamental research that underlies nanotechnology-which very likely will be the next "transformational" technology.

Investments in this priority area will emphasize research on nanoscale structures and phenomena, and quantum control. NSF is the lead agency for the government-wide National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI). NSF is requesting $305 million, an increase of nearly $52 million or 20 percent. This is by far NSF's largest priority area investment.

To operate in an increasingly complex world, we have to produce a general workforce that is scientifically and technologically capable, and a science and engineering workforce that is world class by any measure.


*******************

Article 280

Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, I am pleased to join with my fellow Administration colleagues in your review of the President's Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 budget request for science and technology programs. As you have already heard from Dr. Marburger, the President's budget focuses on leadership in science and technology by calling for an unprecedented $132 billion investment in research and development (R&D) that represents a 44% increase since President Bush took office.

I want to thank the Committee, especially Chairman Boehlert, for your continued support and leadership on innovation issues. You have been a constant and strong voice for the science and technology community - especially in the areas of basic research and nanotechnology. I look forward to continuing to work together to ensure America remains the world leader in the science and technology field. 

The President's focus in the area of science and technology is reflected in the Department of Commerce R&D portfolio. The Commerce budget maintains substantial R&D investments in our two primary technical research bureaus, the Technology Administration (TA) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Through these two bureaus, the Department of Commerce is engaged in critical cutting-edge research in high-priority areas of technological innovation such as nanotechnology, information technology, and manufacturing technology.

The Fiscal Year 2005 President's budget request for TA is $529.8 million in total discretionary budget authority, which includes $8.3 million for the Office of Technology Policy and $521.5 million for the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The Fiscal Year 2005 President's budget request for NOAA is $3.4 billion in total discretionary budget authority.

+++++++++++++++++++

There is no funding proposed for the Advanced Technology Program (ATP) in the Fiscal Year 2005 budget. The total NIST request of $521.5 million is $89 million less than our FY 2004 appropriation. While there is an increase in the FY 2005 funding request for the NIST laboratories, the overall request for NIST is a net decrease due to the termination of funding for the ATP. It is also important to note that a recent trend of shortfalls in funding for the NIST laboratories threatens to undermine the very core measurements and standards infrastructure upon which our nation's scientific, technological and industrial enterprises depend. Accordingly, the President's request for NIST incorporates several major new R&D initiatives, including $15.6 million to support advanced manufacturing, $18.6 million for work related to public safety and security, and $16.2 million to develop advanced measurement capabilities to meet the needs of 21st century science and industry. Last June the President's Science Advisor laid out the Administration's priorities for science and technology R&D in the FY 2005 budget. These NIST R&D initiatives are an excellent fit with those priorities - - Under R&D for Combating Terrorism, the NIST public safety proposal includes a funding increase to advance national measurement capabilities in the detection of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or explosive materials; in biometric identification, and in cyber security. This work is closely coordinated with the Department of Homeland Security and other national security agencies. - In the rapidly developing field of Nanotechnology, the NIST advanced manufacturing proposal encompasses a wide array of measurement tools, devices, measurement technologies, standards, and data to provide a critical measurement and standards infrastructure for leading-edge developments in nanotechnology manufacturing areas. These are assignments directly fulfilling NIST's mission and in line with NIST's role in both the National Nanotechnology Initiative and the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act (P.L. No 108-153) that was spearheaded by this Committee. - In line with the Administration's priority emphasis on Molecular-level Understanding of Life Processes, NIST's Measurement Science initiative includes the development of measurements and test methods that will be critical to developments in biosystems and health, such as work in the measurement and analysis of gene and protein expression, nanobiotechnology and DNA and protein markers. - In Networking and Information Technology, NIST initiatives in Public Safety and Advanced Measurement include IT research ranging from improvements in the state of the art of computer and network security - especially wireless and industrial control systems - to cutting-edge research in the emerging field of quantum information science, which promises to lead to advanced information processing systems with phenomenal increases in information storage and processing speeds. - NIST also maintains a substantial effort in the areas of Environment and Energy, including unique research facilities and expertise related to various aspects of hydrogen fuel cells, covering the entire spectrum from fundamental science to successful commercialization. NIST is also requesting an FY 2005 funding increase to address an issue increasingly important to the U.S. economy - equipping U.S. manufacturers with the necessary tools to track and effectively respond to the development of international technical standards, particularly where they impact the access of U.S. manufacturers to international markets. Our formal submission gives you additional details of these and other research initiatives, but I would like to draw the Committee's attention in particular to two very important facilities issues at NIST. 

*******************

Article 281

Basic Energy Sciences (BES). The BES program is a principal sponsor of fundamental research for the Nation in the areas of materials sciences and engineering, chemistry, geosciences, and bioscience as it relates to energy. This research underpins the DOE missions in energy, environment, and national security; advances energy-related basic science on a broad front; and provides unique user facilities for the scientific community and industry.

For FY 2005, the Department requests $1,064 million for BES including $209 million to continue to advance nanoscale science through atomic- and molecular-level studies in materials sciences and engineering, chemistry, geosciences, and energy biosciences. This supports Project Engineering Design (PED) and construction on four Nanoscale Science Research Centers (NSRCs) and a Major Item of Equipment for the fifth and final NSRC. NSRCs are user facilities for the synthesis, processing, fabrication, and analysis of materials at the nanoscale. The request also includes $80.5 million for construction and $33.1 million for operation of the Spallation Neutron Source and $50 million for design and long lead procurement of the Linac Coherent Light Source, a revolutionary x-ray laser light source. With these tools, we will be able to understand how the compositions of materials affect their properties, watch proteins fold, see chemical reactions, and design matter for desired outcomes.

The FY 2005 budget request also includes $29 million for activities that support the President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative. This research program is based on the BES workshop report "Basic Research Needs for the Hydrogen Economy", which highlights the enormous gap between our present capabilities and those required for a competitive hydrogen economy.


*******************

Article 282

Well, there are priorities in this budget. And they are familiar to this committee.

The National Nanotechnology Initiative is up 2 percent overall; 9.3 percent up in non-defense agencies. The National Information Technology R&D program, which is a mature, multibillion dollar program, is down by about 1 percent overall. It is up slightly in non-defense agencies. Both these priority programs have increased substantially in this administration.

The president's hydrogen fuel initiative, a small initiative, is increased by 43 percent. Physical sciences and engineering funding is strengthened through increases of 20 percent in nanotechnology and 12 percent in cyber infrastructure in the National Science Foundation and other targeted increases in budgets in the Department of Energy, NIST and other agencies.

The large increases in the Department of Defense R&D add significantly to the engineering sector. The homeland security R&D among all agencies is increased to about $3.6 billion, with emphasis on bioterrorism, food and agriculture security and countering chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and other catastrophic threats.


*******************

Article 283

SEC. RUMSFELD: Good afternoon! I and some of the folks in this room returned Sunday from a meeting of defense ministers in Munich, and also the annual Wehrkunde security conference. I also went to Croatia. A central topic in Munich was how best to prepare the alliance for the 21st century threats. As the recently released European Union Security Strategy Paper said, "The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is potentially the greatest threat to our security" -- I'm quoting -- "and the most frightening scenario is one in which terrorist groups acquire weapons of mass destruction," unquote. We face other emerging threats as well: the spread of advances such as nanotechnology and cyber attacks. 

There is one capability that is essential to dealing with all of these threats, and needless to say, that's intelligence. Last week the president announced the formation of a commission to look at the U.S. intelligence capabilities so we can better ensure that our intelligence agencies are properly arranged to help defend the American people in this new century. It's not an easy task. They have to try to penetrate closed societies and organizations and learn things that our adversaries don't want us to know, often not knowing precisely what it is that we do need to know, while the adversaries know precisely what it is they are determined to keep from us. As the defenders, free people have to be right all the time. While terrorists, the attackers need be lucky only occasionally.



*******************

Article 284

Science and Technology (S&T)

Our investment in science and technology has and continues to underpin our modernization and recapitalization program. Similar to our applied-technology acquisition efforts, the Air Force's capability-based focus produces an S&T vision that supports the warfighter.

The Air Force S&T program fosters development of joint warfighting capabilities and integrated technologies, consistent with DoD and national priorities. We will provide a long- term, stable investment in S&T in areas that will immediately benefit existing systems and in transformational technologies that will improve tomorrow's Air Force. Many Air Force S&T programs, such as directed energy, hypersonics, laser-based communications, and the emerging field of nanotechnology, show promise for joint warfighting capabilities. Other technology areas, such as miniaturization of space platforms and space proximity operations, also show promise in the future. Through developments like these, the Air Force S&T program will advance joint warfighting capabilities and the Air Force vision of an integrated air and space force capable of responsive and decisive global engagement.

Capabilities-Based Acquisition/Transforming Business Practices


*******************

Article 285

A central topic in Munich was how best to prepare the alliance for the 21st-century threats. As the recently released European Union security strategy paper said, "The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is potentially the greatest threat to our security" -- I'm quoting -- "and the most frightening scenario is one in which terrorist groups acquire weapons of mass destruction," unquote. 

We face other emerging threats, as well. The spread of advances such as nanotechnology and cyberspace.

There's one capability that is essential to dealing with all of these threats and, needless to say, that's intelligence.

Last week, the president announced the formation of a commission to look at the U.S. intelligence capabilities so we can better ensure that our intelligence agencies are properly arranged to help defend the American people in this new century.


*******************

Article 286

On the other hand, I think when that is written, it will be seen that we knew a whale of a lot and that it was a success story for the intelligence community, not a failure on Libya.

Second, I agree with you completely that, given the world we live in and the uncertainties that exist, the task is to have an adaptable, agile, lethal, highly capable military that is oriented not simply to fighting big armies and navies and air forces, which is an unlikely prospect, in my view for the period immediately ahead, but also capable of dealing with these 21st century threats that we're talking about: the terrorism, cyberattacks, the nanotechnologies that we see being developed today. These are the things we're just simply going to have to be able to cope with.

How satisfied am I? I am almost never satisfied. I am impatient and have a sense of urgency about getting this done. Meeting after meeting in the department, I worry that we need to find ways to get multiple leadership centers and more energy put into the change and the transformation. We need more people who are bold and willing to take risks. And we're getting them.


*******************

Article 287

The other three are ongoing developments. The Air Force has already transformed and has been transforming for several years into capabilities-based Air and Space Expeditionary Forces. The Special Forces have taken on expanded roles and have grown. And then the Joint Forces Command, based in Norfolk, has radically changed the way we train jointly and transformed the way we train and transformed the way we fight, and, in fact, has become a model for many other countries who seem to be constantly sending delegations down to Norfolk to see how we do what we do.

Next side, please.

Science and technology, an increase over last year's request. Basically, in addition to what you see up there, money for basic research and applied research, those two may or may not translate into actual military capability. The National Aerospace Initiative, Hypersonic and Space Systems, the future combat system technologies, future naval capabilities, high-efficiency, light-weight power sources for our troops, and what the Joint Forces Command is doing, some emphases in general, if you will, on nanotechnolgoy, on computers, on sensors, on propulsion systems. This is our cutting edge, and once again we've put more money into it.

Next slide, please.


*******************

Article 288

Science and technology -- an increase over last year's request, basically in addition to what you see up there, money for basic research and applied research; those two may or may not translate into actual military capability.

The national aerospace initiative, hypersonic and space systems, the future combat system technologies, future naval capabilities, high-efficiency lightweight power sources for our troops and what the joint forces command is doing, some emphases, in general, if you will, on nanotechnology on computers, on sensors, on propulsion systems -- this is our cutting edge. And once again, we've put more money into it.

Next slide, please.

We have to continue to streamline our own management processes. I mentioned the National Security Personnel System implementation. The initial implementation will involve 300,000 civilians in the Defense Department with performance-based pay, with pay bands as opposed to the rigid schedule structure we've had for decades and decades, with greater ability to hire critical skills and, also, the very bright people coming out of the schools who are being courted by everyone and who just get fed up waiting until they hear from the federal government and go elsewhere.


*******************

Article 289

MR. TUMLINSON: Yeah, two quick points on that issue. One is I agree with everything that's been said, and the idea that you could grow up and actually be somebody exploring Mars yourself some day is very exciting. Regarding the NSF-NASA relationship, to me one of the exciting things about the moon is it doesn't have to be an all NASA project. I'm not just talking about the commercial sector. Why not have NSF grant winning universities operating far side observatories as opposed to NASA, those types of things, and bring in, shall we say, more slices of the government pie there to supplement the kind of budgets they have?

SEN. HUTCHISON: Well, let me just add one more thought. When recently I was listening to Dr. Malcolm Gillis, who is the head of your institution, Dr. Lane. He remarked that when Dr. Richard Smalley and his partner were -- it was announced that they were awarded the Nobel Prize for nanotechnology research, they were teaching freshman chemistry. And I thought in addition to what you have said, to have our stars in the field, the astronauts or other scientific stars, to reach out and teach freshmen or high school students would also be very exciting. I can't even imagine what a freshman would think when the day that they are taking their freshman chemistry class their professor is awarded the Nobel Prize. So --

MR. LANE: I think they'd think, is my homework still going to be due at the end of the period?

SEN. HUTCHISON: You're probably right. (Laughs.) Just to take away all the magic.

MR. TUMLINSON: Senator Hutchison, real quick. You mentioned nanotechnology. We've talked a lot about the inspiration for education. There's a great picture of the late Dr. Gerard O'Neill, who was a major space advocate, working with a mass driver device that he was working on that was going to be used to deliver payloads off the moon. In the picture is one of his young protgs working with him. The kid's name was Dr. Eric Dreschler (ph). He created the nano movement and the name and the entire concept. He was inspired by space. I just wanted to bring out that little known --


*******************

Article 290

Closer to home is NASA's Earth Science Enterprise, which launched its flagship Terra in December of 1999, and operates (or has scheduled launch dates for) over thirty Earth observation satellites, many in cooperation with other agencies and countries, to provide images and data on many aspects of the Earth's atmosphere, ocean and land. These include observations of: atmospheric temperature, moisture content, clouds, precipitation (Aqua), aerosol cloud properties (CALlPSO), absorption and re-emission of solar radiation by the Earth (ERBS), imaging and sounding data to help weather forecasting (GOES-L and M), soil moisture and freeze line (HYDROS), atmospheric carbon dioxide (OCO), global ocean currents (TOPEX/Poseidon), and other missions that provide information useful in understanding climate change and improving weather prediction.

In addition to the high-profile science research activities in Astronomy and Planetary and Earth Science, NASA supports important research in the biological and physical sciences, including research related to the National Nanotechnology Initiative.

One area of the life sciences that is particularly important for human space flight and that requires humans to live in space is studying the long term effects of zero gravity on the human body. We will not be able to make journeys to Mars, or even to stay for awhile on the moon, until we understand how humans respond and can insure their continued health. NASA has formed an excellent partnership to implement that research with the National Space Biomedical Research Institute (NSBRI) that brings together a number of the nation's finest life science research institutions, under the leadership of the Baylor College of Medicine, to further our understanding of the effects of space travel on the human body.


*******************

Article 291

Closer to home is NASA's Earth Science Enterprise, which launched its flagship Terra in December of 1999, and operates (or has scheduled launch dates for) over thirty Earth observation satellites, many in cooperation with other agencies and countries, to provide images and data on many aspects of the Earth's atmosphere, ocean and land. These include observations of: atmospheric temperature, moisture content, clouds, precipitation (Aqua), aerosol cloud properties (CALIPSO), absorption and re-emission of solar radiation by the Earth (ERBS), imaging and sounding data to help weather forecasting (GOES-L and M), soil moisture and freeze line (HYDROS), atmospheric carbon dioxide (OCO), global ocean currents (TOPEX/Poseidon), and other missions that provide information useful in understanding climate change and improving weather prediction.

In addition to the high-profile science research activities in Astronomy and Planetary and Earth Science, NASA supports important research in the biological and physical sciences, including research related to the National Nanotechnology Initiative.

One area of the life sciences that is particularly important for human space flight and that requires humans to live in space is studying the long term effects of zero gravity on the human body. We will not be able to make journeys to Mars, or even to stay for awhile on the moon, until we understand how humans respond and can insure their continued health. NASA has formed an excellent partnership to implement that research with the National Space Biomedical Research Institute (NSBRI) that brings together a number of the nation's finest life science research institutions, under the leadership of the Baylor College of Medicine, to further our understanding of the effects of space travel on the human body.


*******************

Article 292

HUTCHISON: Well, let me just add one more thought. When recently I was listening to Dr. Malcolm Gillis, who is the head of your institution, Dr. Lane. He remarked that when Dr. Richard Smalley and his partner -- it was announced that they were awarded the Nobel Prize for nanotechnology research, they were teaching freshman chemistry.

And I thought, in addition to what you had said to have our stars in the field, of astronauts or other scientific stars to reach out and teach freshmen or high school students would also be very exciting. I can't even imagine what a freshman would think the day that they are taking their freshman chemistry class their professor is awarded the Nobel Prize.

LANE: I think they'd think, "Is my homework still going to be due at the end of the period?"

(LAUGHTER)

HUTCHISON: You're probably right. Just to take away all the magic.

TUMLINSON: Senator Hutchison, real quick, you mentioned nanotechnology. We've talked a lot about the inspiration for education. There's a great picture of the late Dr. Gerard O'Neill, who was a major space advocate, working with a mass driver device that he was working on. It was going to be used to deliver payloads off the moon.

*******************

Article 293

We need to stop the exodus of jobs to foreign countries by giving companies incentives to keep good-paying jobs here at home. We've got to crack down on those tax loopholes that encourage corporations to move off-shore.

America is the leading innovator in technology, but we won't hold on to that competitive edge if we don't have a way to hold on to our jobs.

So we need to invest in science and technology to create the new ideas for the new jobs of the future. America's new-found manufacturing base will come from those breakthroughs, whether it's in biotech or medical devices or the wonders of nanotechnology.

We win the Nobel prizes, now we have to win the markets.

While we invest in the technologies of tomorrow, let's remember the people who make it work. We need a world-class workforce by investing in education -- from K-12 to higher education. Our workers need knowledge and skills to be competitive in the world economy.

*******************

Article 294

We need to stop the exodus of jobs to foreign countries by giving companies incentives to keep good-paying jobs here at home. We must crack down on those tax loopholes that encourage corporations to move off-shore. erica is the leading innovator in technology, but we won't hold on to that competitive edge if we don't have a way to hold on to our jobs.

We need to invest in science and technology to create the new ideas for the new jobs of the future. America's new manufacturing base will come from those breakthroughs, whether it's biotech and medical devices or the wonders of nanotechnology. We win the Nobel prizes, now we need to win the markets.

While we invest in the technologies of tomorrow, let's remember the people who make it work. We need a world class workforce by investing in education - from K-12 to higher education. Our workers need knowledge and skills to be competitive in the world economy.

*******************

Article 295

In today's fiscal environment, it is unrealistic to expect major infusions of funds to basic research and to R&D that would return us to the levels of the 1960s. Moreover, it is questionable if major funding increases would work as effectively as before in a world of rapid technical change where industry is much more adept at deploying resources to the best possible uses. One could legitimately ask, however, whether existing federal support is as effective as it should be in supporting the types of science and engineering education and research that provide a foundation for advanced manufacturing, technological innovation, and national defense. Clearly we are not producing the personnel and the R&D needed to maintain the same technological lead we enjoyed in the 1980s and 1990s.

One could also legitimately ask whether the sort of inspired leadership we saw in the 1960s to challenge our students and researchers could not be replicated to at least some extent today. National leaders rarely speak of or make appearances with technology leaders. Many technologies pioneered in the United States--microprocessors, advanced materials, biotechnology, and nanotechnology--are vitally important to our manufacturing future and could be aided by the attention and endorsement of national leaders, and by judicious support using existing funds. Can we not also imagine more inspirational programs--deep space exploration, a return to the moon, new materials and propulsion technologies to allow manned flight to Mars and beyond, enhanced sensor technologies to root out national security threats, pushing the limits of nanotechnology, ending hunger and environmental degradation through new biotechnology, finally conquering cancer through genetic technology-- where national leadership and investment would be constructive in attracting the best and brightest?

If we could do this in a sustained way, it would work wonders too for the future competitiveness of the manufacturing sector which would lead in performing research and developing the new products required to meet national goals and sustain our global competitiveness, just as it did 40 years ago.

*******************

Article 296

And beyond that, we're going to go to our friends and allies abroad and we're either going to rejoin Kyoto or we're going to start a new one that really works and helps deal with global warming.

(APPLAUSE)

Now, let me be clear, I have no objection to returning to the moon, provided it makes good sense and it's not a political stunt. What we need in this country is a real science and technology policy that unleashes the skills, the creativity, the talent, the energy of countless Americans who bring that energy to developing the frontiers of science, from nanotechnology to astrophysics, and bring that down to Earth in a way that creates jobs and keeps the American economy at the forefront of the world in productivity. That's my vision.

I was on NBC. I was on with Tom Brokaw in the debate in Iowa a couple of weeks ago. And I remember he asked me a really interesting question. He said, "Why is it that people that vote Republican go to church and those that vote Democratic, they don't go to church as much?" I reject that. That's wrong.


*******************

Article 297

Committee Serial No. 108-37. Hearing in Denton, Tex. to examine nanoscience and technology, including R&D initiatives, funding, and possible applications for nanotechnologies (Committee witness list and hearing charter, p. 2-7).
 
Nanoscience is the study and development of materials which have extremely small dimensions, as small as one-billionth of a meter. Applications include the use of nanoscale machines to improve manufacturing, biotechnology, and medicine.


*******************

Article 298

WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   MITCHELL, TODD (President, Houston Advanced Research Center)
   SMALLEY, RICHARD E. (Director, Carbon Nanotechnology Laboratory, Rice University)
   HOLTZAPPLE, MARK (Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, Texas A&M University)
   HENNEKES, ROBERT (Vice President, Technology Marketing, Shell Global Solutions)
   CHANG-DIAZ, FRANKLIN R. (Director, Advanced Space Propulsion Laboratory, Johnson Space Center, NASA)


*******************

Article 299

21ST CENTURY NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT; TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS; RESEARCH; FEDERAL INTERAGENCY RELATIONS; ENGINEERING; MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; WEIGHTS AND MEASURES; MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY; MATERIALS SCIENCE; TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT


*******************

Article 300

And one other quick announcement. The President will participate in a series of bill signings over the course of the next week, which began earlier today by signing the Adoption Promotion Act. The President looks forward to signing the Healthy Forest Restoration Act tomorrow at the White House -- or, I'm sorry, at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This common sense legislation will help protect communities, save wildlife and restore forest health.

Later in the week, he will also be signing the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, and the National Consumer Credit Reporting System Implementation Act. And then on Monday, he will sign historic legislation that strengthens and modernizes Medicare for our nation's seniors, including providing seniors with long awaited prescription drug coverage.

Q That's at the White House?

MR. McCLELLAN: We'll let you know, we're finalizing all those details. We'll get you more information as that's finalized, but it will be in the Washington area.


*******************

Article 301

And one other quick announcement. The president will participate in a series of bill signings over the course of the next week, which began earlier today by signing the Adoption Promotion Act. The president looks forward to signing the Healthy Forest Restoration Act tomorrow at the White House -- or, I'm sorry, at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This common-sense legislation will help protect communities, save wildlife and restore forest health.

Later in the week, he will also be signing the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, and the National Consumer Credit Reporting System Implementation Act. And then on Monday, he will sign historic legislation that strengthens and modernizes Medicare for our nation's seniors, including providing seniors with long awaited prescription drug coverage.

QUESTION: That's at the White House?

MCCLELLAN: We'll let you know, we're finalizing all those details. We'll get you more information as that's finalized, but it will be in the Washington area.


*******************

Article 302

Sec. 125. Of the funds made available in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2004, to the Western Area Power Administration, up to $166,100,000 collected by the Western Area Power Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 and the Reclamation Project Act of 1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be credited to the "Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area Power Administration" account as offsetting collections.

Sec. 126. Of the funds provided for the development of the new molecular imaging probes in the statement of managers to accompany H.R. 2754, $5,000,000 shall be provided to the University of California, Los Angeles for the continued efforts for PET imaging, systems biology and nanotechnology.

Sec. 127. Funds appropriated in this, or any other Act hereafter, may not be obligated to pay, on behalf of the United States or a contractor or subcontractor of the United States, to post a bond or fulfill any other financial responsibility requirement relating to closure or post-closure care and monitoring of Sandia National Laboratories and properties held or managed by Sandia National Laboratories prior to implementation of closure or post-closure monitoring. The State of New Mexico or any other entity may not enforce against the United States or a contractor or subcontractor of the United States, in this year or any other fiscal year, a requirement to post bond or any other financial responsibility requirement relating to closure or post-closure care and monitoring of Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico and properties held or managed by Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico.


*******************

Article 303

DO IT as an Incubator for Innovation The NSF plays a vital role in nurturing the people, ideas, and tools needed to generate new scientific knowledge and new technologies. Federal investments in the basic sciences through the National Science Foundation have produced many benefits, including:

-New industries, such as E-commerce and biotechnology,

-New medical technologies, such as MRI and genetic mapping,

-New discoveries with great future promise in areas such as nanotechnology, cognitive neuroscience, and biocomplexity.

NSF has accomplished this by funding innovative, peer-reviewed science and engineering research, educating a highly skilled science and engineering workforce, and building partnerships with other federal programs, non-profits and industry to foster transfer of knowledge, methods and tools.

DO IT will play a similar role to foster a community of researchers and developers. DO IT will give academia, non-profits and industry the resources to develop learning content, methods, and models that will provide learners, teachers, and instructors with new tools. Some tools will be as basic as interactive digital aids to reading, writing, math, and languages, and some will be as sophisticated as simulations, visualizations, and distributed collaborative projects. Given an aggressive and successful program of research, computer simulations could let learners tinker with chemical reactions in living cells, practice operating and repairing expensive equipment, or evaluate marketing techniques. Simulations could make it easier to grasp complex concepts and transfer this understanding quickly to practical problems. New communication tools could enable learners to collaborate on complex projects and ask for help from teachers and experts from around the world. Learning systems could adapt to differences in student interests, backgrounds, learning styles, and aptitudes. They could provide continuous measures of competence, integral to the learning process. Such measures could help teachers work more effectively with individuals and leave a record of competence that is compelling to students and to employers.


*******************

Article 304

(3) For Catalysis Research activities under section 956

(A) for fiscal year 2004, $33,000,000;

(B) for fiscal year 2005, $35,000,000;

(C) for fiscal year 2006, $36,500,000;

(D) for fiscal year 2007, $38,200,000; and

(E) for fiscal year 2008, $40,100,000.

(4) For Nanoscale Science and Engineering Research activities under section 957

(A) for fiscal year 2004, $270,000,000;

(B) for fiscal year 2005, $292,000,000;

(C) for fiscal year 2006, $322,000,000;

(D) for fiscal year 2007, $355,000,000; and

(E) for fiscal year 2008, $390,000,000.


*******************

Article 305

Basic energy sciences. The conference agreement includes $1,016,575,000 for basic energy sciences, an increase of $8,000,000 over the budget request. The conference agreement includes $575,711,000 for materials sciences and engineering research, and $220,914,000 for chemical sciences, geosciences, and energy biosciences. The additional $8,000,000 for materials sciences and engineering research is to support additional nanoscience research at existing user facilities and the new nanoscale science research centers. For purposes of reprogramming in fiscal year 2004, the Department may reallocate funding among all operating accounts within Basic Energy Sciences.

The conference agreement provides the requested amounts of $124,600,000 for construction of the Spallation Neutron Source (99-E-334); $35,000,000 for the Molecular Foundry (94-R-313); $29,850,000 for the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies (04-R-313); $20,000,000 for the Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences (03-R-312); $7,500,000 for project engineering and design (PED) for the Linac Coherent Light Source (03-SC-002); and $3,000,000 for the Center for Functional Nanomaterials (02-SC-002). The conference agreement also provides the request of $7,673,000 for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR).

Science laboratories infrastructure. The conference agreement provides $54,590,000 for science laboratories infrastructure, including an additional $10,000,000 to correct safety deficiencies at Science laboratories for the purpose described in the House report, and $1,000,000 additional for excess facilities disposal for the 88-inch cyclotron at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. From within available funds, the conferees expect the Department to provide not less than $15,600,000 to meet infrastructure needs at Oak Ridge National Laboratory.


*******************

Article 306

The budget request included $10,232.0 million for defense science and technology, including all Defense-wide and military service funding for basic research, applied research, and advanced technology development. To address the conferees' concerns with respect to critical shortcomings in the budget request, the conferees recommend an authorization of $11,029.6 million, an increase of $797.6 million for the Department of Defense (DOD) Science and Technology (S&T) Program.

The past year has provided numerous examples of successful technology development and deployment. The men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces are better equipped, trained, and protected because of revolutionary breakthroughs emerging from the technology base. The Global War On Terrorism has provided a showcase for precision munitions, unmanned and robotic systems, instantaneous global communications, and other technologies that enable our military superiority. With continued robust and stable science and technology investments, future forces will leverage revolutionary technologies such as directed energy, nanotechnology, and intelligent robotics to accomplish their missions.

Despite the positive aspects of the Department's Science and Technology Program, the conferees are concerned about long-term projections for reductions in DOD science and technology as a percentage of total obligation authority, which are well below the three percent level, and in short-term trends in the science and technology accounts of some of the military departments and defense agencies. In particular, the conferees share the concerns raised by the House regarding the Navy Science and Technology Program. As highlighted in the House report accompanying H.R. 1588 (H. Rept. 108-106), ". . . the Navy's core science and technology program is reduced to $1.48 billion, $460.0 million less than last year's appropriated level, 1.3 percent of the total Department of the Navy budget, and the lowest in total and percentage funding of the military departments. The budget request represents the second straight year of a significant reduction in the Navy's science and technology program."


*******************

Article 307

(e) Skill Certification Pilot Projects.

(1) Pilot projects. In accordance with subsection (b) and from funds appropriated pursuant to paragraph (10), the Secretary shall establish and carry out not more than 10 pilot projects to establish a system of industry-validated national certifications of skills, including

(A) not more than 8 national certifications of skills in high-technology industries, including biotechnology, telecommunications, highly automated manufacturing (including semiconductors), nanotechnology, and energy technology; and

(B) not more than 2 cross-disciplinary national certifications of skills in homeland security technology.

(2) Grants to eligible entities. In carrying out the pilot projects, the Secretary shall make grants to eligible entities, for periods of not less than 36 months and not more than 48 months, to carry out the authorized activities described in paragraph (7) with respect to the certifications described in paragraph (1). In awarding grants under this subsection the Secretary shall take into consideration awarding grants to eligible entities from diverse geographic areas, including rural areas.


*******************

Article 308

At the edges of our solar system, robotic divers plunge the watery depths of Jupiter's moons, mapping dark oceans and illuminating their potential inhabitants. Streaming video is sent back to Earth from these and other locations, allowing researchers and the public to experience the exploration of new worlds firsthand.

The space systems necessary to enable this vision, such as enhanced power and propulsion, intelligent robotics, high- bandwidth communications, lightweight materials, and modular and reusable components, have driven cutting-edge research in key sectors such as information technology and nanotechnology. Private industry and government employ these tools to benefit the economy, homeland security, and national security. The peaceful application of American technology is credited with opening the solar system frontier for humanity, and the United States has gone down in history as the nation that made the biggest scientific discovery of all time, life beyond Earth.

This is the future of space exploration if we faithfully implement the vision and strategy laid out in the NASA Strategic Plan. I sincerely appreciate the forum that the Committee provided today to highlight the NASA Vision and Strategic Plan, and I look forward to the opportunity to respond to your questions.


*******************

Article 309

America's economic competitiveness and national security is increasingly dependent on the superiority of our technology and technical know-how. There is a widespread belief -- almost a blind faith among policy makers -- that as communications, semiconductor manufacturing, electronic devices and other key technological capabilities are off-loaded to other countries, the United States will just move on to the next field, to the next "big thing".

Many observers, including government officials, argue that the next "big thing" is going to be nanotechnology, and that nanotechnology is going to generate enormous economic benefits and create many new jobs. We can only speculate on the impact that nanotechnology will have on the economy and jobs, and hope that it will be significant as some predict. However, we should not be complacent. As a nation, we are not alone in our pursuit of the frontiers of nanotechnology. China is currently the second largest producer of technical papers in nanoscience and nanotechnology, even ahead of Japan. With great cost advantages in addition to this advanced technical knowledge, we should anticipate that China will compete strongly for new nanotechnology jobs and manufacturing opportunities.

U.S. manufacturing has also been hit hard by offshore outsourcing. This has important and serious consequences for U.S. engineers and for technological innovation, economic growth and national security. Some wonder whether manufacturing matters very much since it only accounts for about 15% of the Gross Domestic Product. However, from a technological innovation point of view, manufacturing matters greatly. Nearly 48% of American engineers work in the manufacturing sector. The manufacturing sector also accounts for 62% of all research and development (R&D) in the U.S. The prevailing management approach is to locate R&D as close to manufacturing production as possible. As manufacturing moves overseas, it is inevitable that both engineering work and R&D will follow.


*******************

Article 310

Improvements in the U.S. economy will play a major role. I am confident that the current jobless recovery will relent as displacement and adjustment abate, capital spending increases and new investment opportunities appear. Absent the irrational exuberance of the Dot.com days, we may not see employers giving away BMWs as signing bonuses or paying six figure incomes to technical people with little or no actual on the job experience. Instead, in the short to mid-term, downward pressure on salaries will produce more jobs for American workers and, for those simply looking to cut costs, a more competitive payroll picture may undercut their need to move jobs offshore.

We will also catch a new, market redefining technology wave. I cannot tell you whether it will involve nanotechnology or grid networking, light waves or power lines. I can tell you that waves of innovation have changed conventional thinking and the market prominence of juggernaut industry players several times in the last 50 years. I am confident this will happen again and America will once again be the beneficiary.

Voices of doom say the offshore phenomenon spells the end of white collar IT employment, as we know it. The adherents of Adam Smith say, "Don't worry, be happy." The answers lie somewhere in between. We must work together to find them.


*******************

Article 311

If these steps are constrained within a single company, like was done in much of the -- into this century, it's okay. It works. If it's confined within an enterprise center, the system works. If you don't do this, then the inventions often end up on the cutting room floor because you can't manufacture them. That's our concern. Sure, some businesses can employ remote design and we hear a lot of talk about virtual companies and remote design. But those are now generation devices. They're not cutting edge new devices that nucleate entire industries.

This is all anecdotal information and it doesn't accurately capture what I call the pervasive and insidious nature of enterprise center break-ups. I think it takes more detailed analysis to really understand them and understand the impact, particularly the time cycle and then to create a national strategy to prevent future loss. It's like the Titanic. You have to get on the problem early in order to get a desired result. I worry about that for new technologies like nanotechnologies. You've probably heard about them. And MEMS technologies. This is a MEMS product from our Sandia labs, if you'd like to see it. A little chip that is really a machine. These are the technologies that are fragile, most fragile.

National security products parallel this commercial development except for two differences. The first difference is that product security is difficult to maintain. Classified products are important to the national security enterprise and we must maintain that classification. It's difficult to do in a foreign environment. Now, we have most of our chips made offshore and the government's hard pressed to ensure future supplies of cutting edge technology. Second, the cutting edge technology that we use in government designs are difficult to produce on demand in a commercial plant. Why? Because a commercial plant runs product to create profit and if you just run a few products for the government, then you interrupt the production line and it doesn't work. So there's two reasons why Defense is different.


*******************

Article 312

This program has been going since the '60s. It's lost some of its allure it seems to me. Our challenge now with half of our graduate students coming in from foreign to do our research that sponsored through the national science foundation should scare the hell out of us. It seems to me that NASA -- and strike the word 'hell' without objection so ordered. NASA has been sort of oriented to scientific research in the past and I think it should continue that way, and to the extent that we can justify it as far as research endeavors that result in better products or better ways to produce, more efficient ways to produce those products then certainly we can support that.

Dr. Koss, in terms of your suggestion for satellites or if you will some free flyers up there, and in terms of doing some of the scientific research more effectively, more cost effectively, what would be the cost of one of these satellites compared to a traditional satellite that we've been putting up? Is the cost of robotics and the nanotechnology and the communications system to conduct this research substantially going to increase the cost of those platforms?

MR. KOSS: I believe that the cost of autonomous science platforms has savings over the shuttle or station performing those experiments. And so by doing more autonomous and remote experiments even in the creation of a new facility for doing so, you save money by reducing the number of shuttles or station resources that need to go to performing those science experiments, which will free up funds for the broader vision that NASA has.


*******************

Article 313

It seems to me that NASA -- strike the word "hell" without objection, so ordered -- NASA has been sort of oriented to scientific research in the past, and I think it should continue that way. And to the extent that we can justify it as far as research endeavors that result in better products or better ways to produce, more efficient ways to produce those products, then certainly, we can support that.

Dr. Koss, in terms of your suggestion for satellites or, if you will, some pre-flyers up there, in terms of doing some of the scientific research more effectively, more cost effectively, what would be the cost of one of these satellites compared to a traditional satellite that we've been putting up? Is the cost of robotics, and the nanotechnology, and the communication system to conduct this research substantially going to increase the cost of those platforms?

KOSS: I believe that the cost of autonomous science platforms has savings over the shuttle or station performing those experiments. And so, by doing more autonomous and remote experiments, even in the creation of a new facility for doing so, you save money by reducing the number of shuttle or station resources that need to go to performing those science experiments, which will free up funds for the broader vision that NASA has.


*******************

Article 314

Technologies for Modernizing the Electric Grid

There is a portfolio of technologies that have the capabilities to enhance the reliability and efficiency of the electric grid. Many of these will require further research, development, field testing, and demonstration to lower costs, improve reliability and durability, and demonstrate effective performance. The Appendix, taken from the National Transmission Grid Study, provides additional details on a wide range of grid modernization technologies. Advanced Conductors and New Materials. Desirable properties of new material for electricity conductors include greater current-carrying capacity, lower electrical resistance, lighter weight, greater durability, greater controllability, and lower cost. Advances in semiconductor-based power electronics have given rise to new solutions that allow more power flow through existing assets, while respecting local land use concerns. Advanced composite materials and alloys are also making an impact and are being used in new designs for conductors and cables. Diamond technology could replace silicon and achieve dramatic increases in current density. In addition, scientific discoveries in advanced materials are resulting in new concepts for conductors of electric power. For example, nanoscience is opening new frontiers in the design and manufacture of machines at the molecular level for fabricating new classes of metals, ceramics, and organic compounds (such as carbon nanotubes) that have potential electric power applications.

High Temperature Superconductors. High temperature superconductors are a good example of advanced materials that have the potential to revolutionize electric power delivery in America. The prospect of transmitting large amounts of power through compact underground corridors, even over long distances, with minimal electrical losses and voltage drop, could significantly enhance the overall energy efficiency and reliability of the electric system, while reducing fuel use, air emissions, and physical footprint. Superconducting technologies can be used in generators, cables, transformers, storage devices, synchronous condensers, and motors - equipment that crosscuts the entire electric power value chain.


*******************

Article 315

GREGG: Let me begin the hearing. It's 10 o'clock. I expect we'll have members wandering in and wandering out. There's a lot going on, plus I guess the traffic is a disaster this morning, which is too bad -- typical, I guess. 

Let me first say on this subject, nanotechnology, that this committee is extremely interested in this issue because of its implications specifically to health care, obviously, which are dramatic. And the fact that if we look to the future, this appears to be the science and the area where we're going to see an acceleration of more than geometric proportions, nano-proportions, that will dramatically affect everything we do, I suspect, but especially affects our health care as we deliver it in this country and the world.

And as I look at the American experiences as we move into this century and we see that so much of manufacturing and a free market economy is moving overseas, our capacity as a nation to compete is going to be tied to our capacity to lead technologies which lead the world. And nanotechnology is clearly one of those areas where we, as a nation, need to be and are leading. And the government has an obligation to be a sister in this effort.

And so, I wanted to hold this hearing today, first to get thumbnail sketches to what's happening in the area; but second to hear ideas as to what we should be doing, if anything, beyond what the government is already doing. And interestingly enough, we appear to be involved in this fairly aggressively already, which is hopefully good news; and thirdly, issues that we see coming down the road which we need to address as a matter of public policy, ethic issues, things which we need to address early so that they don't become bumps or impediments to the expansion of the technology and the use of the technology in a variety of different ways.

So, I very much appreciate the fact that the witnesses are here today. We have such an expert group.

Dr. Schloss is the National Human Genome project researcher in this area and, of course, NIH is making a major effort in this area. And the NSTC, which is the National Science and Technology Council, which coordinates the activities in this area, is the representative from NIH on that.

Dr. Dehmer is with the Basic Energy Science Department at Oak Ridge. And this is an area where we have a huge interest in nanotechnology research, and we appreciate her taking the time to be here.

Dr. Stupp is the director of the Institute of Bioengineering and Nanoscience and Medicine at Northwestern, which is on the cutting edge of the use of this area of technology in an interdisciplinary way.

And Todd Lizotte is from New Hampshire and has actually commercialized some activities in this area that are exciting, especially the use of very small penetrating micro-lasers that allow for the introduction of extremely small holes in various applications.

So, I appreciate you all taking the time to come here. And why don't we just begin? I want to do this sort of as a discussion format, and so I would suggest that each of you sort of give us what your thoughts are in five or ten minutes and then we'll move on to a discussion and hopefully between you folks and me and whoever else comes by as to where we're going.

Dr. Schloss?

SCHLOSS: OK. Thank you, Senator Gregg, for the opportunity to come this morning. I probably have way too many slides and I understand that. And I have a lot of examples at the end. We'll go through a number of them and then when we've seen enough examples then we'll stop.

So, we've probably all heard the definition -- I've put it in here just to make sure that people understood what we're talking about -- research and development, the atomic molecular or macro molecular levels, so we're being fairly inclusive there. The scale is important. It's 1 to 100 nano-meters.

And we really focus on this idea of a fundamental understanding of phenomenon materials and this idea of creating and using structure devices and systems with novel properties because of the size scale.

So, all of those things have to come together to comprise this new field of nano-science and nanotechnology.

So, from the biology or health perspective, a number of us are thinking of this in at least two ways that are not totally mutually exclusive. They overlap a lot. One of which is the idea that nanotechnology is operating at the same size scale as biological processes.

So, this offers us a really unique vantage point from which to interact with the biology of life.

One of the key issues there is we can really work and study biology at the single-molecule level.

The other aspect of this is that nanotechnology has grown up in other fields, generally, in the physical sciences. And these fields have generated a number of incredibly important material devices and tools that we can apply with the appropriate research to biological systems.

And so we can fundamentally understand biological systems and use that information to translate out into a utility for biology in medicine and for other areas of technology. And then we can also bring into biology the discoveries from other fields.

So, we coordinate a nanotechnology research at NIH through the bioengineering consortium, or BECON, and we need to do something like that, because with 27 institutes and centers, we need a central way to deal with this. And this just represents the various components of the NIH that are involved in this process.

You'll notice actually that we have three other agencies that are represented in the lower right hand corner who have participated in BECON activities, and this is one of the ways that we can coordinate across agencies.

One of the important activities of BECON has been to hold a series of symposia where we reach out to various communities that have in many cases not been the typical NIH communities and use this as an opportunity for people to meet each other, to understand the vision of other scientific fields as related to biology and medicine, and also to understand how we can do business at NIH differently in order to promote research in those areas. And as you see, one of these was through nano-science and nanotechnology back in June of 2000.

So, the support for nanotechnology at NIH occurs through a number of different kinds of programs. A few of them actually say nanotechnology in the program announcement, but most of them actually don't. And because the mission of the NIH is, of course, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and they tend to be framed in that context, but there are many opportunities to apply nanotechnology ideas in those contexts.

So, this is just a list of program announcements that have been generated through BECON, through these trans-NIH effort, and the first two are specifically for nano-science and nanotechnology. The first is for standard research grants that NIH would provide to research institutions, colleges, universities, and the second is through the SBIR program to help these kinds of ideas and tools get out through commercialization.

And the others are more general programs that BECON has developed, again, through the auspices of all the institutes of the NIH, under which people can apply for nanotechnology and nano-science research support.

And then this is just a list of a few of the many program announcements from institutes, usually from consortia of institutes, under which nanotechnology can be supported. And I've broken them down just for the examples here into sort of different areas of basic research or sensors or tissue engineering, disease and syndrome research and diagnostics and therapeutics to give some idea of the breadth of areas where we believe nanotechnology's going to be important in the context of NIH.

So, our investment in nanotechnology has well more than doubled in the time that the NIH budget has doubled. These are fairly conservative projections I think for the out years. Of course 2003 isn't finished yet, so we'll only tally that at the end of 2003. And we have actually new programs. The first program announcement I showed you is actually a new one where we've received many applications, and I think our portfolio is likely to grow faster than this.

Through the National Nanotechnology Initiative, several grand challenges have been enunciated, and the one for health care is clearly the one that's most relevant to NIH. And the areas where nanotechnology is going to be important are listed here -- detecting disease very, very early, before there's any substantial deterioration of health, in the tissue regeneration area and in therapeutics delivery.

So, the rest of the slides are really examples. And obviously there's a lot of information covered in each slide and I won't go through it. I'll try to point out some key issues.

So most of these slides represent projects that NIH is currently supporting. In a couple of cases, there was no good Web site or place where I could get nice illustrations. So, I've illustrated it with other research that's not being supported by NIH, but in each case it represents research that we are supporting in other grants.

And the other thing I've done here is not only indicate the grantee, but also the institute of the NIH that's supporting it so that you'll have some sense of the way that this crosses the NIH.

So this represents a material called quantum dots that allow us to do things that we have been able to do in the past with organic dyes, but probably a lot better than we were able to do it in terms of the different colors, which we could use to indicate different cellular entities, and also the kinds of signals we can detect in our imaging.

and in this case, it's showing that we can use these quantum dots to label various proteins inside a cell and learn about them. These can also be used for imaging in whole animals, and this is just the study sort of to show you where we are.

the key thing here, in this case, the quantum dots are coated with a material that didn't work very well. And I'm just going to run this movie that runs over 60 minutes. And all you're supposed to see here is that the signal, except in the liver, disappears very fast. And when you coat it with a different material, the quantum dots stay in the blood circulation for 190 minutes.

So, this is where we are. We're trying to learn how to use these materials to do in vivo imaging and in this case of the mouse -- a mouse or a rat, I'm sorry I can't remember which -- in order to be able to, in this case, visualize circulation. But this will be used potentially for many other things in in vivo imaging.

This is another study also using in vivo imaging using quantum dots, again, a collaboration by the company that's commercialized these and Cornell University in which they're doing much finer resolution of the circulation of the circulatory system.

And I wanted to point out this additional item that was noted in this publication: No adverse effects on the mice were observed. And the mice are being maintained to investigate long term q-dot toxicity.

This is a very important point, clearly. We have to understand how these nano-scale materials interact with the body. And we're now developing the tools, as you can see here, to be able to actually do that.

So, there are a number of other sensor examples here in the slides. This is an example. Instead of coating the outside of the nano-material with the materials that will allow for specific biological visualization here, the construction of the nano-material itself is going to produce fluorescent signals that can be visualized in the light microscope, and it will indicate various interesting important things about the cell's physiology.

Here's the use of carbon nano-tubes that have very unique electrical properties. These tubes are one nano-meter in diameter. They can be centimeters long. The idea here is to put something at the tip of the nano-tube that will allow us to detect some specific biological molecule and then perhaps use these in catheters to detect things inside the body.

Another thing this slide points out is partnerships between agencies. So, in this case, it's a collaboration between the National Cancer Institute and NASA.

SCHLOSS: The next few slides I won't talk about in detail. There are other kinds of sensors technologies that are being supported in this case under SBIR grants, the work coming from Harvard. Here's another one work actually supported at Mass. General Hospital and this is a technology that might be used not only to do diagnostics in test tubes, but also potentially in vivo imaging once again.

Quantum dots have many other uses, for example, in a high- through-put (ph) screening. There are many other ways to do high- through-put (ph) screening.

There are very, very novel ways to use nanotechnologies. In this case, it's for measuring information from DNA using a pore that's exactly the same size in diameter as a DNA molecule. This would be a very new approach to DNA sequencing. It uses new physics, new fabrications technologies, and there are partnerships all over the country that are working on this.

There are a number of aspects of tissue engineering, most of which I won't cover because Dr. Stupp is going to cover that. But so that there are two different approaches here, one is modifying existing approaches to tissue engineering and the other is creating completely new ones.

And there are examples in drug delivery, either for creating new ways to deliver existing drugs to make them more effective or creating completely new drugs that didn't exist before that work by different principals using nanotechnologies.

And this is the last slide I'll show. This is a multifunctional device based on some very elegant chemistry, beautiful molecules, actually. And the idea here is you'll create a complex by this very tightly, carefully controlled chemistry where you could bring the complex to a very specific place in the cell, use this for biopsies or in vivo imaging in the whole person to find out where this material has localized to target a specific thing that's gone wrong, such as cancer cells. And use the same device to deliver therapeutics.

So, I'll stop there, because I've run just a little bit long. And I have additional slides that we can use later on to illustrate various points, if that seems appropriate.

And so now I'll close down my presentation and we'll move to the next one.

GREGG: Thank you, Doctor.

Dr. Dehmer?

DEHMER: Let's see if I can use a foreign computer.

Senator Gregg, Senator Murray, it's really a pleasure to be able to represent the Department of Energy here this morning. I'm Pat Dehmer. I had the Office of Basic Energy Sciences and the Office of Science in the Department of Energy.

I've given a lot of talks on nanoscience to folks who don't have a lot of physical science training. And I find that starting with a poster that I made several years ago is the best way to tell people what some of the challenges are.

This is the Scale of Things poster. And I'm actually going to use -- each one of these ticks represents an increase of a factor of 10. So, this might be 10, 100, 1,000 and so forth. This is a scale of increasing size.

The nano world, as Jeff said, is about 1 to 100 nanometers. The micro world, which we're much more familiar with, is about 1 to 100 micrometers. These two scales differ by a factor of 1,000.

Quite remarkably until very recently, we were not able to see anything in the nano world. We could only see things in the micro world. And I think it's not an understatement to say that our ability to see atoms has driven both the nanotech and the biotech revolutions. And this came about relatively recently in the last 30 or 40 years or so.

So, let's just look at some of the things that nature makes in these various size ranges and some of the things that man makes in these various size ranges.

In the micro world, the world that we're familiar with, we have red and white blood cells, we have fly ash, we have human hair and if you want to get bigger, we have pesky things like dust mites and ants and mosquitoes sucking the red out of the things natural (inaudible).

So, this we're very familiar with. We've been able to see these using visible light microscopes.

At the nano-scale, things are more complicated. Here we see atoms of silicon, solid silicon spaced by a few tenths of a nanometer. Here we see de-oxyribonucleic acid, DNA, this wonderful polymer that transmits all the information of life. It's actually about two and a half nanometers wide.

If you go to a slightly larger biological molecule eroder, it's about ten nanometers wide. It's at the nanometer scale that Mother Nature starts assembling things. And it's at that scale that things start having their properties. Metals start having metallic properties, biological molecules start having the properties of living things.

It's an extremely important world. It took Mother Nature about three billion years to perfect these molecules. By contrast, man has been working at control over materials for a couple of thousand years, if you ignore rock hand-axes, which were about a million years old.

So, what has man done? On the right hand side of the chart, in the micrometer-scale region, you see these beautiful MEMs devices, micro electro mechanical devices. A little tooth of one of these gears is about the same size as a red blood cell.

We have been able to drive downward in our industrial fabrication to the micron level. And one of our speakers here this morning, Mr. Lizotte, is going to tell us about some of the things that they've done in this size region.

However, if you go much lower than this, you can no longer do things with fabrication. You have to use a different way, a different approach. If you go way down to the level where Mother Nature starts putting things together, at the atomic level, in a tour de force, researchers have been able to move atoms literally one at a time into quantum structures, circles -- this is a circle of atoms -- or they've been able to make slogans. Everyone's seen the IBM slogan written with atoms. This is a tour de force, and it's not likely to go into mass production if you physically have to move an atom one at a time.

The way that we're going to have to solve the problem of making nano-structures is to do what Mother Nature did, to learn how to self- assemble nano-structures to get what we want. And here's a self- assembled structure that another one of our speakers, Dr. Stupp, has made, and he'll tell you more about that.

It is only through self-assembly that we are going to be able to make nano-structures to do what we want to do. And the big challenge in the decades to come is to take different kinds of nano-structures that nature hasn't thought about, put them together in various ways so that we can make things that nature hasn't done, and in particular, make things that are more robust than natural systems. Natural systems are remarkable, but they don't withstand high temperatures, high pressures and other kinds of corrosive atmospheres.

So, this then is a scale of things and it presents some of the challenges.

One of the things that Jeff talked about is coupling things that man makes with things that nature has made to make nano-structures that live inside the body that can detect disease that can act as sensors and so forth.

So, this in a nutshell, is the scale of things and where we are in man's attempt to control materials at this scale.

So, what's the role of the Department of Energy in all of this? The department has several roles, and I alluded to one a moment ago when I said that it's only been recently that we've actually been able to see things at this size scale.

If you look at the little tiny spectrum right in the middle of the chart, that's the visible light region. And things that are larger than that you can see with a visible light microscope. For example, you can see red blood cells with a visible light microscope.

Things that are smaller than that, you can't see. The laws of physics simply forbid you from looking smaller. So, in order to see things at the nano-scale, we have to come up with probes that are themselves the size of atoms.

And there are three kinds of probes that have emerged: X-ray, neutron and electron.

And the Department of Energy recognized some quite a few years ago, that these would be extremely important probes of matter.

By the way, the discovery of each one of those, electrons, neutrons and X-rays, was made about the turn of the last century, and they were so important that each one of them garnered for its discoverer the Nobel Prize.

These probes are so important that they have become the basis for major user facilities that are shown here. These are the user facilities for X-ray scattering and neutron scattering that are operated by the Office of Basic Energy Sciences and the Department of Energy. We operate four huge light sources around the country. We have three operating neutron facilities, one at Argon, one at Oak Ridge and one at Los Alamos. This is the Spallation Neutron Source, a $1.4 billion construction project that is under way at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. And on the drawing board we have a fourth generation X-ray source.

Together these, plus the electron beam scattering centers that we also run, have really revolutionized our ability to see things. And again, it is not an understatement to say that the ability to see how Mother Nature puts things together has driven both the nanotech and the biotech revolutions and this is one of the main contributions of the Department of Energy's Office of Science.

When the National Nanotechnology Initiative came along, we recognized the importance of these major facilities at the nano-scale. And part of the Office of Science's contribution to the NNI was to make user facilities for nanoscience that are sited along site of these major facilities for seeing atoms. And those are shown here.

Under construction right now we have five user facilities for research at the nano-scale at Brookhaven National Laboratory, next to the National Synchrotron Light Source at Argon National Laboratory. This is being funded joint by the State of Illinois and DOE, and it is appended to the Advanced Photon Source, a major synchrotron. We have one at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, again, which is adjacent to the Advanced Light Source. We have a center going up at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, which is appended to the Spallation Neutron Source, and we have a center at Los Alamos and Sandia National Lab, which is appended to the Lujan Neutron Scattering Center, plus also, their facility for MEMs, which is extremely important.

So, this is part of the contribution of the Department of Energy. Another part of the contribution is the support of fundamental research, and about 60 percent of the fundamental research in nanoscience has been competed recently has gone to the university community. This is an example in bimolecular materials, which I'm not going to go over in the consideration of time.

This is one that's very interesting, and it demonstrates a principal that sometimes you don't know what you're going to get out of fundamental research. This was a project at Argon National Laboratory -- where I spent my formative years, but not on this project -- on ultra nano-crystal and diamond, UNCD. And if you don't think of the University of North Carolina when you say that acronym, you're better than I am.

This is ultra nano-crystal and diamond. And what it shows is that the diamond film forms in grains that are at the nanometer size. This is about three to five nanometers across. This diamond film has some extraordinary properties. It's as hard as natural diamonds. It has low coefficient of friction, and these two properties mean it can be used as coatings that are hard and wear resistant. It has very high electrical conductivity that can be varied by many orders of magnitude and that means it's great for MEMs devices, because it can be little electrical conductors. It has high field emission from micro points.

Here are some micro points, and that means it can be used as a signaling device because electrons can come off of it. It's chemically inert and it's bio inert and it's biocompatible. And those things are very important.

And here's one of the artificial retina projects that's ongoing now in the United States. And this film is used at the back of the retina to help bring the image from the outside into the nerve cells in the eye.

So, the folks who thought about making this diamond film never had a clue that it might be used some day in an artificial retina. And this is some of the magic of nanoscience.

So, with that, I'm going to thank you for your attention and I'm going to turn it over to Danny.

GREGG: Thank you, Doctor.

Dr. Stupp?

STUPP: Good morning. Thank you Senator Gregg, Senator Murray for the opportunity to brief you this morning on my views on nanotechnology and the future of medicine, which is what I was asked to do.

There's no need to define nanoscience and nanotechnology anymore. Dr. Schloss and Dr. Dehmer have done a great job of that. But, I simply want to remind everybody that cells function through interactions among nano-structures, and in fact, these are highly orchestrated...

GREGG: Excuse me, Doctor, I have to take a call. I'll be right back.

STUPP: ... that cell function and make life possible by high- orchestrated interactions among nano-structures. Most of those nano- structures are actually proteins.

So, with the capabilities that we have now to create nano- structures with basically any chemistry that's available on the planet, almost, then we are in a position to make artificial ones that can talk directly to the cell, and then control cell behavior or probe cells.

Now, one of the interesting opportunities in this field is regeneration of body parts, regenerative medicine. Targeted drug delivery is another one in, for example, the area of more humane chemotherapy, or more effective chemotherapy could fall under this category. We could also use the nano-structures, the artificial ones, to in fact detect disease at very early stages.

The related opportunities, of course, that come with all this knowledge base has to do with bio security, for example, and certainly geno mapping, which is also very important in regenerative medicine as well.

So, let me focus on regenerative medicine, which I've used as an example to illustrate how nanotechnology is embedded in this problem. So, so far, this is what we do, what's illustrated here on the right- hand side. We stick metals and ceramics, huge chunks of metal, in fact, and ceramic and other materials, composite materials to fix joints and to fix blood vessels with artificial polymers for example.

What we should be looking to into the future is essentially the left-hand side that is -- have a scheme that allows us to regenerate all tissues of the body in adulthood. This is the target.

Now, why is regenerative medicine important? Well, it is important certainly because humans are living longer now and they will probably continue to live even longer. And the current generation of course is very interested in high quality of life. Humans want to be -- at least in developed countries, there is a lot of desire to be physically active and have a higher quality of life into a more advance stage. This is very much characteristic of generations now. So, regenerative medicine therefore will have a great human impact.

But of course there are other issues. For example, the societal implication here is to basically think about the facts that we then need to keep populations in a highly productive and agile state into a more advanced stage, and that brings of course, all kinds of problems.

The needs for regenerative medicine are many, but I wanted to focus on a few here, which I think are important.

Real progress in this field, which is highly interdisciplinary, will require combining the frontiers of technology, in this case, nanotechnology with biology and clinical medicine. And this is all about interdisciplinary science and technology in countries that do not know how to tackle with interdisciplinary science technology will not win in this field. Both from a human point of view, of course, and an economic point of view, because this is also an economic opportunity.

We have, in this country, many entrepreneurial bright students which are going to be attracted to this objective, because this is one of the great biomedical challenges of the century, to be able to regenerate the human body. But they need to be backed up by an interdisciplinary culture, which is not there yet.

So, this is an issue that we need to keep learning and ask questions about all the time, because no one has the right formula yet for interdisciplinary education and research. The universities need to deal with this constantly. The agencies, of course, have to deal with it as well, and they have a very critical role to play.

The issue is that teams of sciences and engineers of different fields is not enough. What you really need is multilingual scientists and engineers that can effectively do interdisciplinary work.

Now, here are some of the great targets, in my view, of regenerative medicine. We certainly should have -- as a developed society, we should have a way to reverse paralysis, and we don't have a way to reverse paralysis now, reverse blindness. And so what needs to be done here is spinal cord regeneration and retina regeneration, for example.

Heart regeneration is extremely important as well, and this is something that afflicts a large section of the population.

If we could do that after heart attacks, then quality of life would be much higher. The same thing with a stroke, which is a problem for almost a million people every year, just in the U.S.

There is need for self-therapies, basically to substitute for the pancreas that doesn't produce insulin. And here, regenerative approaches are also important as well.

Everybody would like to have access to cartilage in adulthood, because that causes the damaged cartilage, which no one in this room can grow cartilage right now, because I suspect there's no one here that's under 18. And so it's all gone if we have an injury in cartilage that would cause a lot of pain, decrease quality of life, and attempts to fix this problem is also a multi billion-dollar business. And so if we have solutions it would be a very attractive problem.

STUPP: No one knows how to repair bone universally. And of course bone repair is something that afflicts an extremely large portion of the population every year.

And of course, nobody dies with their original permanent teeth, which is another reality here. It'd be great if we could regenerate enamel, for example, and not have to use dentures and all the porcelain and metal that gets placed in our mouth throughout life.

So, how is that nanotechnology embedded in this problem of regenerative medicine? Well, the key is that we need to have scaffolds. To regenerate tissues in adulthood is like building a building. You need a scaffold. So, if a scaffold is needed, which is made up of nano-structures that can talk directly to cells and instruct them on what to do next.

And of course a lot of the information to design the scaffolds, to design the nano-structures of the scaffolds, needs to come from genomic and pretomic (ph) information so that we know which signals we are to provide to cells in order to regenerate different tissues.

We also need to be concerned with stem cell biology. We're going to have to know how we want to deal with that problem. And of course, regulatory work, such as the FDA, will need to be important as well.

So, I want to illustrate the problem with this nano-structure, which was developed in my laboratory. We basically, using the spirit of nanoscience and nanotechnology, went out to create an artificial nano-structure that would mimic collagen fibrils, because collagen fibrils are everywhere in your body. They're the most common components of the natural scaffolds were cells live in the various tissues of the body.

So, having a way to create an artificial one where we can change, let's say, the chemistry here to customize it to neurons or to retina or to hearts or to bones is extremely important. We were able to do that in this slide, which you already saw in Dr. Schloss's and Dr. Dehmer's talk. It shows the molecular rendition of this nano- structure.

Just to show you how interdisciplinary this activity is, this structure, which should be of great interest to the NIH community because it's for generative medicine, the fundamental science that was needed to develop it actually came from support from the Department of Energy. And so this shows you how difficult it is to predict where things are going to come from and why is it so important to constantly be interested in interdisciplinary science and research.

These nano-structures combine protein, for example, so if we know from genomics and pretomics (ph) what proteins make what tissues grow, we can stick them there by design using specific techniques. We can load the middle of the structure in that cargo compartment with drugs, like hydrophobic drugs, for example, that are important in creating strategies for regenerative medicine to actually make them work in the clinic.

This slide shows you how those fibers really look like when they are in three dimensions and that is a picture of the scaffolds where the cells can be. And so they form networks and the networks have a thumb strand, which are single nano-fibers, other strands, which are groups of twos or threes.

We've been able to customize them for the spinal cord injury recently, and so we have already in the laboratory nano-fibers, which cause for neuron pergenerator cells to differentiate specifically inter-neurons and very rapidly.

So, this slide is an illustration of that differentiation. The green says that they are neurons and you see very, very extensive neuritis coming out of a cluster of progenitor cells and the most interesting aspect of this problem is that other cells like glia cells have not appeared in the presence of our scaffolds.

Glia cells are implicated in the spinal cord injury problem, because glia cells when there's spinal cord injury, they create a scar, which prevents neurons from reconnecting and then healing. So, de-synthetic nano-structures were able to direct progenitor cells to go only into the direction of being neurons and nothing else. And normally, materials that have been explored for this purpose, you get mixtures of cells. You get glia and neurons. And so this will be important for spinal cord injury repair.

Bone, which is very important for the entire population because we will always depend on a healthy skeleton. We can move around with a fractured skeleton. We have problems, osteoporosis for example and all of these things that connects very much the high quality of life. The same nano-fiber, the same synthetic structure we were able to customize it so that it would grow, bond crystals very rapidly that mimic exactly those found in natural bone.

We were able to reconstruct the crystallography and the nano- structure detail of bone mineral present in natural bone using a different molecular structure in the nano-fibers. So, it is possible to customize this to different tissues.

In the case of cartilage, which is this yellow region shown here. And if you have a cartilage injury you will be miserable for a long time and maybe the rest of your life, because it's very difficult to regenerate it. We have found nano-structures in which condrasites (ph), which are the cells of cartilage, can actually remain in the fena (ph) type that's characteristic of condrasites (ph) and produce the predioglycons (ph), which are so critical to formation of cartilage.

This area right here, indicated as (inaudible) is condrasites (ph) sitting on nano-structures. Over here, these are condrasites (ph) sitting on tissue culture plastic, or some other material that's not designed, and so there the cells lose the characteristic fena (ph) type, which allows them to produce cartilage.

So, it's a very exciting possibility that we actually can go in, design a nano-structure, and talk directly to cells, send them in pathways that will lead to regenerated tissues.

Another great target is the heart, and I think here, the same thing will apply. We will need to find out what are the right signals, the right episodes, as biologists called them, and growth factors that are necessary for this to happen.

Now, to conclude, I just want to give you a few thoughts about how I think we should proceed.

Well, it's clear that these artificial systems in regenerative medicine, which is the example I chose to use, they will be developed by highly creative teams of physical scientists, engineers, biologists, and clinicians, everybody working together. But all the members of the team will have to speak several languages, otherwise this will never happen.

So, the interdisciplinary culture is not necessarily going to emerge spontaneously. There are people that are naturally interdisciplinary. Others are not naturally interdisciplinary, and federal agencies, for example, can do a lot to promote that culture through the programs they create.

And I think NIH and DOE both are doing an excellent job so far, but I don't want to say that it is a perfect job yet, because there's a lot of work to be done and frankly, the formula is not there yet.

And I think universities are willing to do technology transfers. That's another issue that's important here. And we must be very much aware of the fact that large companies are really not doing beyond the work that's going to be necessary for this field.

And the venture capitalists, which are terribly scared right now for whatever happened in the '90s, are pulling back and they are not ready to invest in high-risk quantum leap projects. And so again, the federal agencies need to intervene and help move these processes along.

I would say that we need to ask the question of whether or not our country is offering the best possible resources we can offer to make science an attractive career for young people. I question that. I'm not really sure. We can discuss that later if you'd like.

But I think having those resources is critical for a segment of the population. There's a segment of the population that goes into science that will be scientists no matter what you do. OK. So, you don't need to do anything for those. But there's another segment that are undecided, and they make selections about business careers, legal careers, medical careers, different careers and go in that pathway for accidental reasons sometimes or just because the right opportunities are not presented to them at the right time.

So, that's where we have to look, because I don't think we have the right number of people, of bright young people in this country going into science and engineering careers right now. Business as usual will not do to go after this particular objective that I have described to you.

Thank you.

GREGG: Thank you, Doctor.

LIZOTTE: Good morning, Senator Gregg and Senator Murray. I appreciate this opportunity to come here. I'm definitely very intrigued by a lot of the work that's happening. I delved in the area of practical, bring it to the market kind of areas and my discussion will be from a small business perspective some of the areas that we do in micro as we're transitioning and looking towards a future for nanotechnology.

One of the things I'll just introduce our company in general, Power Transit, what we see as transitioning from micro to nano. Some of our products are in homeland security and defense and some of our traditional markets over the years and I'll end it with some closing statements.

I'm the vice president of R&D at NanoVia. And typically where we operate is, we operate from a point of looking out into universities and in the national labs and looking for opportunities, and that is when materials are created, when processes are created, even in the basic scheme of things. A lot of the technology we deal with here is for micro machining, or micro engineering, micro fabrication, technologies that came out of the microelectronic industry. And what we're doing is adapting it to applications, which can be commercially viable.

Now, those commercial applications can be things as simple as computers. One of the areas that we focus on is the efficient attachment of computer chips and processors to chip-carrier devices, also in the area of micro fluid delivery, including catheter schemes for delivering drugs or therapeutic drugs, and also our latest technology stuff in pulmonary drug delivery.

Our services, once again, are geared toward the research process and equipment development within our marketplace, which is micro systems, or micro electrical mechanical systems and passa (ph) mechanical micro devices.

Some of the images you can see, which we always throw up for scale purposes, the upper image there is a human hair with small sections cut out of it using our particular laser technology. And where you can see that, we can create very high finesse cuts through different materials without damaging the surrounding structure.

One of the things I like to do with talking to people about scale, especially when you're talking micro technology and nanotechnology, is to say that in the micro scale, one micron is equivalent, if you look at a human hair, is about 100 to 150 microns, where as a nanometer is one-eighty-thousandth of the diameter of a human hair. So, it's a very broad scale.

Now, as far as commercial development in nanotechnology from a small business perspective, or getting it out into the commercial area, it's going to be a long coming. It's not going to be anything super substantial in the next few years, other than maybe in the bio areas. But we do see some things, especially in materials, that we're interested in. We're looking at materials that can withstand, as said earlier, different environments and utilizing that material in our processes.

One of the things that we kind of looked at, micro technology is, is we say micro is the new macro for the United States. The traditional manufacturing of welded assemblies and the stuff of that nature is really getting shipped offshores. Even from 1999 when we started out, we were developing a process to triple the through-put of chip packages for laptop computers. And we really thought we had something. And we pushed it forward and built a tool, and what we found was all of the market between 1997 and about 2000 shipped to Taiwan and China.

So with that much manufacturing overseas, we saw, well, there's probably not too much opportunity for us to build equipment in that area. So what we ended up doing is licensing that technology, and we ended up licensing that technology with Japanese concern.

But we doubled back and we focused on things that we felt were our key areas where we could see potential for manufacturing in the United States. And the areas we see, of course, in medical device and diagnostics, some of them microwave components, communications components and high-value-added products, we still see these being competitively built in the U.S. and we see a market there for us in the future.

One of the things that Dr. Stupp had talked about, which we say is very important is we call it a multidiscipline education. One of the things that are interesting about engineers is that when engineers enter into a workforce, typically they go into a company and they might have one discipline. Myself, I was a mechanical engineer, but I entered into an organization demanded that I know optics and I know lasers.

So what ends up happening, in that type of environment, where profitability and delivering to the customers there, you learn those disciplines and you learn them rapidly. And over a short career of 10 years, you might also dabble in electronics, or electricity for some applications, or even semiconductor processes. So what happens is that in the manufacturing environment, we are creating engineers, or manufacturing engineers who have multiple disciplines and also has chemistry and such of that nature.

So we see ourselves as a small business and as a growing business in this market as being the facilitators of taking the technology that's developed in the laboratories and the universities and actually applying them to potentially commercial products.

Now, a lot of the things that we've been working on in regards to products, and I'll just say from 15 years ago, we started drilling holes in small devices for inkjet, and those holes were around anywhere from 100 microns to 75 microns, around the diameter of a human hair. And now we're drilling one-micron holes to facilitate the atomization of pharmaceuticals that can be delivered down into the deep lung.

What we see with the micro to nano is an opportunity for us to really stake a claim in this new market that's coming out. And what we see is, one of the things that is a big barrier to some of the foreign competitors, specifically in the Far East, we tend to say that the operator in a herd mentality, which is typically an engineer or staff engineer within a facility, there will be 10 people applied in the manufacturing floor to solve one problem.

I personally have consulted in Taiwan, and I've seen this happen where it takes them a long time. And that's because they do not operate the same way we do, and they also don't have a multidiscipline ethic in regards to when they get into (inaudible). They only want to do their one job, and I see that as a benefit in regards to our competitiveness.

As far as this market, we see opportunities in new capital equipment requirements, as been discussed, that we only recently been able to see down to an atomic level. That gives us the potential of actually developing the new tools that are coming out. And I think we might have a strategic advantage there. And those tools can be built by companies like ourselves. Once the basic science has been done, we can apply it and productize it and bring it into the market.

One of the other things that's key in all these markets is that U.S. companies hold a significant market share in most of the diagnostic aspects, micro electronic ICs and communications devices, so I see that we have a strong position.

Here's some applications that we're doing in regards to the homeland security and defense. Off to the side you can see this one- micron diameter hole. To drill one micron hole is pretty easy if you do one. We do 1,000 every second, and we have a system which does even more than that every quarter of a second, and we do it to six- signal level, which basically is about one defect per million. And that's a requirement, especially for drug delivery, because you can't have a situation in which someone tries it and it fails, especially if you're delivering something therapeutic that they need immediately, say, for diabetes or something like that.

We're working on some other applications in regards to making micro structures and even nano-structures. And in our world, we look at nano-structures from our perspective as below a micron. So, one micron's a thousand nanometers, a tenth of a micron, a hundred- nanometer range, is really what we're calling our nano at this level, at this point.

And one of the things we're doing is structures for different types of ID, holographic ID, for anti-counterfeit technology, and also some military applications for tagging military vehicles to identify them as friend or foe from aircraft and such. Some interesting obstacle technology.

This is an example which I talk about in regards to pulmonary drug delivery and where I see that there's a potential here to kind of revive some of our traditional manufacturers.

One of the things is, we have an opportunity in some select areas to work on machine technology and get a foothold in there, process technology in regards to how the things are processed, the assembly technology. And in this case, we're talking about some traditional lamination and application which is done by people who make paper and such.

But if some of these traditional corporations could transfer over into these new areas, they could find newer markets and maybe higher- value-added markets which could help them out and transition from old technology.

And then of course product technology, that's where the key is. You can have one element of it, but if you're selling the product, then you're talking about true manufacturing and then of course to the end user.

Some of our traditional markets, I've talked about micro electronics, packaging, single-dose commercial pulmonary drug delivery devices, which we look at potentially Third World medical applications for giving a lot of these countries the ability to do immunizations and stuff of that nature without very complex delivery systems.

Holographics, defractive optics and fluid metering, which includes inkjet, because that's always a good market out there for us financially.

But bio-analysis, we do a lot in regards to micro-channel plates and some advanced stuff that we call lab on a chip, and maybe even create devices which people could use in regards to their work and basically create devices which allow them to do their work easier or faster and such.

In closing, one of the things that we've been thinking about is what's the role of government in regards to small business. The small business innovative research branches are very interesting vehicles. Our experience with them, though, is that even if you get through the first phase, you're not going to get to the second phase. There's a potential that you won't get to that second phase. And the thing is, is that a lot of the times you'll see a lot of these programs don't go past the first phase.

In a small-business environment where we have technology, we believe in our technology, and if we show a track record of success with our company, one of the things is we don't see the FBIR programs being very attractive, because what it does is it maybe gives you one piece, but it doesn't guarantee you to bring it to the next level of marketing it.

LIZOTTE: We're trying to see if there's a potential talking about things, where it's a small business entrepreneurial grant, where we're talking about something where we do have a product, or we have something which is maybe out of the laboratory, which is fundamentally there but needs to be productized and there's maybe a higher level of potential success.

The FBIR first-phase grants are about the same level of risk. Our feeling is that if there's a potential link entity to one of these programs where it's just at the cusp of being productized, that would probably allow us to bring it into the main stream and apply it. That's one thing that we're thinking of looking at. And we look at these grants, looking at funding different levels of where these products come out.

Another area is a multi-industry alliance grant. And this would be something we've been contemplating and that we currently do without federal funding, and that is, we look for traditional manufacturers that maybe are, say, are a molding company. But then they're very good at what they do, and they have a very highly skilled workforce, but we need micro molding. And what we do is, we introduce to them the micro-molding concepts, which gives them an entry into this market they've never even been exposed to.

If there was a way in which we could look at some kind of funding to bring certain products out this way, where we maybe link these different traditional manufacturers, maybe in different regions of the country and different disciplines and try to bring it together to maybe bring them into this new type of technology.

One of the things that I think, as a final note, is that unless you have a workforce that can handle this type of technology, even if you develop it, you just can't bring it to market. You can't, from a product level. One of the things that we have now, even with some of the students and stuff that are coming into the workforce is that they just don't have the background in micro technology. And now we're talking about nanotechnology.

There is definitely a shortfall, and it has to, as Dr. Stupp was talking about in regards to their education and their ability to adapt into a micro world, when they're educated at a macro level, that is definitely something we typically see about a three year -- if you bring in an engineer, it'll take him about three years to bring him up to speed on the process and the technologies that actually exists. And they're always changing. And that's if we keep them, we can retain them, because there are always opportunities you can put forward.

And that's all I have to say.

GREGG: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Lizotte.

(OFF-MIKE) is I think a key issue for us as a nation. So I appreciate that.

I was just wondering, these were excellent presentations and gave me some strong background here, and I'm sure Senator Murray, too, and these records will be available to others.

But, I'm wondering, Dr. Stupp, you mentioned the regeneration. If you're a person out there today who has a spinal cord injury, that's exciting news, but is it realistic news? I mean, what is the time frame here that we move from the green to some form of actual reality, if there is such a time frame that's predictable?

STUPP: I think, well, it's probably reasonable to say that this might happen in, say, 10 years, maybe five to 10 years. Five would be very optimistic, but I think it's reasonable within ten years.

However, discovery by the clinician is not predictable. And there could be breakthroughs that will accelerate the process.

I think that it will probably come in stages, and so even earlier than 10 years we may see very small steps that can be taken to at least return some motion to paralyzed individuals. Maybe they won't have a normal life, but it would be slightly better than it is today.

GREGG: And Dr. Schloss and Dr. Dehmer, what should we do in the area of funding? Is there more funding or is there more focus? Should we reorient programmatic activity to accelerate Dr. Stupp's dream here, which appears to be just over the horizon?

SCHLOSS: One thing I'd like to see us do is to be careful not to too narrowly focus the funding. The things that Dr. Stupp is describing are, I think he's pointed out, rely on discoveries from many different areas. And we don't know exactly which of those areas the solutions are going to come from.

I think what we want to do is encourage, as several people have said, teams of investigators who bring expertise from a lot of different areas to be working together, to be communicating effectively, not just working in the same physical space, but communicating so they can bring all of these ideas together. And that's why a number of us have developed funding mechanisms and new programs that may not specifically focus on nanotechnology, but focus on solving important problems in biomedicine.

That said, sometimes those very targeted on a medical problem funding approaches, what you end up funding might be the most obvious next step towards solving a problem. And we have to be really, really vigilant about keeping an open mind to leap forward.

So, thus, I think one of the big challenges for the agencies is how to balance these various needs where we have people that your question implied. I have a spinal injury now or my daughter has a spinal injury now. I want to see a solution to that. And we have to balance the very obvious near term research with things that may not come out for ten years. So, it's challenging.

And obviously more money is always great.

GREGG: Well, do you think there is a structure in place that various NSF, NIH, Energy that is allowing for that more global view, or is there something that needs more attention?

SCHLOSS: I'd say there are things in place and we're also very aware that it needs more work.

DEHMER: Yes, I'm going to agree with everybody.

More seriously, I think what we're seeing is an evolution in the way science is done. When I was in school and some of my colleagues were in school, we very rigidly fell into a chemistry department or a physics department or a material science or biology department. And the entire science structure of the nation, and that includes the universities, the federal laboratories and the funding agencies, have to recognize that the problems are no longer defined by these tidy departmental names.

And we've seen an evolution, no question about it. FAM (ph) is tenured in how many departments?

STUPP: Three.

DEHMER: Three. And what are they?

STUPP: Chemistry, medicine and material science.

DEHMER: And we're going to be seeing more of those kinds of things. We're going to be seeing more students cross-trained, speaking a language that they didn't speak in individual departments. This is happening. Science is a pull that drags universities and federal laboratories and funding agencies along, but in addition, the institutions and the funding agencies have to recognize what's happening and be a push as well. It's happening. It will happen naturally, but everybody has to recognize that it needs nurturing.

GREGG: I think Mr. Lizotte's point also is -- and certainly Dr. Stupp's point -- is that you can't do without human capital coming up. And is this technology so advanced in its need for academic background that it makes it impossible for example, for us to educate average workers, people who are coming through the system through a technical college system to be contributors to the manufacturing side or does it grade A out like other sciences?

STUPP: Well, I think that certainly we will have to educate workers on the manufacturing side, because once nanotechnology is implemented in many products there will be certain procedures that have to be used. Clearly that group of individuals is not going to be the ones making the discoveries.

So, yes there will be needs for education in many different levels as the new technologies get implemented. But I think the most important one right now, in 2003, if you think about how we move forward is to ask ourselves if we are doing everything we can to encourage, to make science an exciting career for young people. We need to ask that question very seriously.

I think the NSF, for example, does a lot of great things, but they don't have that much money. And they spread themselves very thin. And sometimes they're not effective because the resources aren't there.

GREGG: Of course the big element of that is economic return...

STUPP: Sure.

GREGG: ...which drives the cap of society and draws people in the certain -- how far are we from Mr. Lizotte being able to execute on your ideas and initiatives in the nano area?

STUPP: Well, I think the nano area very much needs the start up company model to move forward and I think you're beginning to see this culture develop. It is very difficult right now with some exception to think about the right R&D programs in the traditional large companies of this country.

I think this technology needs to move out of the laboratory into very small start up companies that then slowly receive more and more investments and then eventually are acquired perhaps by the larger ones and then products will be developed that way.

I think the start-up company culture is very important in nanotechnology and we should do everything we can to promote it. It also creates employment.

It's very exciting employment for our Ph.D. students, for example, because they're not excited about going to the large -- I don't want to use specific names of companies, but we all know which ones those are -- they're not excited about those jobs, because they know they're going to be there solving problems about existing products and they find that boring and not challenging.

Twenty, 30 years ago they went to those companies to do research and to introduce innovation and produce new products. That opportunity really isn't there for them anymore, so the start up company takes that bright Ph.D., entrepreneurial students and keeps them on that mode and that has a very, very positive impact. So, the source of employment and the source of wealth, because eventually, real development takes place in those start up companies.

GREGG: And Mr. Lizotte made some good suggestions in there. Did you have a...

LIZOTTE: Yes, I have a comment in regards to, just a perspective. In the micro world, it was easy for me to transfer into, back in the mid '80s in from a macro education into the micro world very easily, because the equipment was already in place. All we were adapting was the existing infrastructure and the semiconductor in microelectronics industry. And that had 60 years worth of development in the equipment end and in the device end.

I think we're at this, my belief, we're at the same situation as the discoveries that are happening -- and I'm sorry for this terminology -- and maybe at a test tube level or chemistry level, where the thing is, the problem is that those tools don't exist. You don't have the equipment in place. So, what's happening is you're making discoveries, but then you're saying, OK, well, how do I scale this up and make it profitable? How do I make it into a product and such? And that's the problem.

Back when I came into this marketplace, there was a full established discipline, so I could read and I could train and I could work on that equipment and come up to speed very rapidly and make my own discoveries over the years. In this case, there's no equipment. You have a discovery and you're struggling now with how am I going to scale this up. And I see that as a big issue, because the new people coming in that might have some micro background don't have any equipment to jump on and focus on the manufacturing end of it.

So, I think it's going to be difficult for the translation of this stuff back into industry. Maybe in the bio area where there's a lot of equipment out there in the bio area, but nanotechnology is applied to maybe all the other markets, like materials and stuff of that nature. I think it's going to be a hard time to ramp up and bring into the marketplace.

STUPP: Yes, and that's exactly where I think the wide start up companies are so important.

GREGG: Doctor, you were going to make a point after Dr. Schloss.

SCHLOSS: No, I'll pass.

GREGG: OK. Unfortunately, we're going to have a vote here in a minute, but let me ask one more question. To what extent are we going to get down the road here, three years, and you're going to have capability of actually saying to somebody or something very significant where the spinal or cartilage or whatever and we run into an ethics problem. To what extent is that potential and if it is potential, how should we try to anticipate it and avoid it?

STUPP: And your question is about are we going to run into an ethical problem?

GREGG: Right.

STUPP: It's not clear to me that there will be an ethical problem. I think the only problem that I can see will be related to the cost of the procedures and whether the population at large will be able to afford them. I mean they will initially be probably relatively expensive procedures and so I think affordability might be the issue.

GREGG: Well, that's the issue throughout medicine today.

STUPP: Exactly. But, at the same time, if you have let's say joint disease or if you have a spinal cord injury, the cost the government of an individual being afflicted with joint or spinal cord disease is enormous. The cost of the new procedures that nanotechnology will bring will be minute compared to what we currently spend.

So, there will be a need to balance those two, but...

GREGG: You don't see a stem cell...

STUPP: Right. OK. The stem cell...

GREGG: A policy question here.

STUPP: OK. I would like to answer this way. Regenerative medicine procedures, advanced ones, which are based on nanotechnology, will be possible with or without stem cells. So, there will be advances that will not require stem cells that will be based entirely on nanotechnology. There will be others that will require stem cells. And in fact, many of them will require combinations of the two.

So, I think the best solutions in the long run will be those that utilize nanotechnology and also look to stem cell biology. The combination of the two I think will be the most effective.

GREGG: You were going to say something, Dr. Schloss?

SCHLOSS: No. I really agree.

GREGG: Are there any other points folks want to make on any of this?

LIZOTTE: One thing. I know there's a lot of debate and there's a lot of stuff in regards to this nanotechnology and a lot of books have been written and a lot of science fiction. As not involved in biotechnology, I've never feared technology. I always say that there are a lot of things that potentially can kill us out there.

I've been dealing with nano-particles and stuff from debris from processes I've worked on for the last 15 years and there's safeguards and infrastructure in there in which to alleviate any of those concerns of small particles being ingested by humans and this and that and the other thing.

You're always going to have situations where somebody does something wrong, but I think a lot of this technology is so beyond of the groups that might use things like this for things that are maybe not so useful in society, but my feeling is a lot of this stuff is science-fiction.

SCHLOSS: I agree with that. I don't see that as -- I think that's, although it's represented, there are so many other things that are...

LIZOTTE: Sure.

GREGG: Right.

SCHLOSS: ...very simple to do, but it would be unusual for somebody...

STUPP: Senator Gregg, if I could say one more thing, I think there's enormous hype about the dangers of nanotechnology. In fact, my community is trying very hard to eliminate that, because the hype and the problem is really people that have for some reason and it's very difficult to understand where this came from, but there is enormous amount of hype about the dangers of nanotechnology. They're definitely not based on facts.

GREGG: I think that's a problem the technology world has that we continue to see whether it's genetically modified foods, which significantly improve production and reduce poverty and reduce hunger to being stopped by people who think they're doing good to other sciences like this. And I think as long as we're transparent about it and aggressive and being transparent on science that the average person is going to appreciate the benefits over any threat. And the key is for us, that are in the public policy arena and for you who are in the science arena is to be constantly pushing the transparency so that people can't make up conspiracy theories based on some information that they think is being hidden from them.

So, that's why this hearing is, I think, useful and will be covered. And I congratulate you on the science you're doing. I honestly feel and I think Mr. Lizotte made the point excellently, that we are not, as a nation, going to compete with China in basic manufacturing. We're going to compete clearly in our capabilities of adding value and where we're really going to be adding value is in breakthrough science activity.


*******************

Article 316

As I have said, it is wrong to expect nations - especially developing nations - to accept lower standards of living and curtailed economic development, just as it is impractical to expect that any nation will not take advantage of abundant domestic energy resources to power their economies. It is better, therefore, that we work together to develop new technologies that advance all our economies and preserve the world's environment.

Fifty years ago, no one could have guessed how technology would transform the way we live today. Computers, genomics, nanotechnology, space travel, and other technical marvels were hardly imaginable a century ago. But mankind developed these things. And it is in our nature that we continue to develop new technologies to advance civilization.

The challenges we face are significant. But working together, we are capable of developing and perfecting the new technologies that will transform the way our children and grandchildren and all future generations live.


*******************

Article 317

The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, to which was referred the bill joint resolution (S. 189) TITLE to authorize appropriations for nanoscience, nanoengineering, and nanotechnology research, and for other purposes, having considered the same, reports favorably thereon without amendment with amendments with an amendment (in the nature of a substitute) and recommends that the bill joint resolution (as amended) do pass.

Purpose of the Bill

The purpose of this legislation is to authorize appropriations for Federal nanotechnology programs for fiscal year (FY) 2004 through FY 2008, and to establish a National Nanotechnology Program (the Program) to provide guidance, investment, and coordination to Federal nanotechnology research.

Background and Needs

Nanotechnology is a newly emerging field of science where scientists and engineers are beginning to manipulate matter at the molecular and atomic level in order to develop materials and systems with revolutionary properties. A nanometer is one-billionth of a meter, or roughly 100,000 times smaller than a strand of human hair.

Nanotechnology is an inter-disciplinary field, combining all aspects of the traditional sciences. Nanotechnology requires expertise in engineering, chemistry, physics, materials science, biology, and computer science. Nanotechnology had been touted as the next Industrial Revolution, ushering in advanced materials and systems. Advances in nanotechnology are expected to lead to groundbreaking benefits throughout industries. While much of the work done in nanotechnology involves basic research, some commercial products are already available to customers. For example, new plastic imbued with nanoparticles of clay is as hard as glass, less likely to shatter, and better at sealing in carbonation to keep drinks fresh. The textile industry has developed fabric that uses nano-hooks to attach small fibers to cotton, allowing it to effectively repel stains. Self-cleaning windows are coated with nanoparticles to prevent dirt from sticking to glass. Research is being done in nano-containers to improve drug delivery.

National Nanotechnology Initiative

The National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) was created in 2000 with the goal of coordinating the Federal government's research and development efforts in nanotechnology. Federal support is crucial because given nanotechnology's infancy, few companies are willing to fully invest their resources since the pay-offs are so far into the future. Venture capitalists also shy away from nanotechnology for the same reasons. Universities tend not to have sufficient funds to engage in exploratory work. Only the Federal government can bridge the gap for the next decade before this research can be widely applied to commercial products. The Federal government has a history of sponsoring research that opens new frontiers that have led to a multitude of national security and commercial applications (atomic physics, space exploration and the development of the Internet). Many believe that nanotechnology is the next such frontier.

Funding for the NNI, through participating agencies, has increased from a total of $255 million in FY 1999 to $774 million in FY 2003. The Administration has requested $849 million for the NNI for FY 2004, an increase of 9.8 percent over the FY 2003 appropriated level. If Congress approves this requested increase, the funding for the NNI will have doubled since FY 2001.

"Small Wonder, Endless Frontiers"

In June 2002, the National Academy of Science (NAS) completed its review of the NNI. In its report entitled, [A>SMALL WONDERS, ENDLESS FRONTIERS<A], the NAS found that the leadership and investment strategy established by the Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and Technology (NSET) subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) has set a positive tone for the NNI. The NNI's initial success also can be measured by the number of foreign governments that have established similar research programs. Nevertheless, the NAS review committee made a number of recommendations concerning the program, including:

The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) should establish an independent standing nanoscience and nanotechnology advisory board to provide advice to NSET members on research investment policy, strategy, program goals, and management processes.

NSET should develop a crisp, compelling, overarching, strategic plan.

NNI should support long-term funding in nanoscale science and technology so it can achieve its potential and promise.

NSET should increase multi-agency investments in research at the intersection between nanoscale technology and biology.

NSET should create programs for the invention and development of new instruments for nanoscience.

A special fund for Presidential grants, under OSTP management, should be created to support interagency research programs relevant to nanoscale science and technology.

NSET should provide strong support for the development of an interdisciplinary culture for nanoscale science and technology within NNI.

Industrial partnerships should be stimulated and nurtured, both domestically and internationally, to help accelerate the commercialization of NNI developments. NSET should create support mechanisms for coordinating and leveraging State initiatives to organize regional competitive clusters for the development of nanoscale science and technology.

NSET should develop a new funding strategy to ensure that societal implications of nanoscale science and technology become an integral and vital component of NNI.

NSET should develop performance metrics to assess the effectiveness of the NNI in meeting its objectives and goals.

(The entire NAS report can be found at http://www.nap.edu/catalog/10395.html)

[A>ETHICAL AND HEALTH CONCERNS<A]. Recently, commentators, including Michael Crichton, author of the book, [A>PREY<A]; HRH Prince Charles, the Prince of Wales; and Bill Joy, chief scientist of Sun Microsystems, have all raised concerns about nanotechnology. They all raise the specter of a "gray goo" catastrophe in which self-replicating microscopic robots the size of bacteria fill the world and wipe out humanity. Less sensational concerns also have been raised about the health and environmental effects of nanotechnology. A research group led by researchers at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) Johnson Space Center found in preliminary studies that inhaling vast amounts of nanotubes is dangerous. In another study, Dr. Vyvyan Howard, pathology specialist at the University of Liverpool, found that nanoscale materials are toxic, and can be easily ingested, inhaled, or absorbed.

[A>INTERNATIONAL COMPETITION<A]. Despite these concerns, both the United States and its European and Asian economic competitors have begun the race to be the leader in nanotechnology. The EU has budgeted $1.2 billion for nanotechnology in 2003 and 2004. Japan is expected to invest approximately $810 million in FY 2003. South Korea and Taiwan also have established national nanoscience and nanotechnology research programs based on the NNI. The NSF found that nearly 25,000 graduates in Asian countries received doctoral degrees in engineering fields related to nanotechnology in 2000, compared with fewer than 5,000 in the United States. Also, of the 18,000 scientific articles mentioning nanotechnology in 2000, just one-third came from America.

Summary of Provisions Authorization of appropriations

S. 189, as reported, would authorize appropriations for nanoscale science and technology research and development programs at the NSF, Department of Energy, NASA, National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, and Department of Agriculture. S. 189 would authorize $796 million for these programs for FY 2004 and a total of $4.7 billion for the period of FY 2004 through FY 2008.

National Nanotechnology Program S. 189, as reported, would authorize the President to implement a National Nanotechnology Program (NNP). The program would build on the work of the NNI to provide federally funded research through the participating government agencies. The NNP would establish the goals, priorities, grand challenges, and metrics for evaluation of Federal nanotechnology research programs; invest in Federal research and development programs in nanotechnology and related sciences; and provide for the interagency coordination of Federal nanotechnology research, development, and other activities undertaken as part of the Program. The legislation would authorize the establishment of interdisciplinary nanotechnology research centers; the establishment of an American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center; and the establishment of a Center for Nanomaterials Manufacturing. The legislation also would authorize the Director of NIST to establish a center within NIST's Manufacturing Engineering Laboratory for issues relating to the commercialization of nanoscience and nanotechnology research, and act as a clearinghouse for information related to nanoscience and nanotechnology research.

Program Coordination and Management S. 189, as reported, also would authorize the NSTC to oversee the planning, management, and coordination of the NNP. The NSTC would coordinate the budget requests of, and provide guidance to, participating departments and agencies. The legislation also would authorize the President to establish the National Nanotechnology Advisory Panel (NNAP) to advise the President and NSTC on the management, coordination, and implementation of the NNP portfolio, the components of the NNP, trends and developments in nanotechnology, maintenance of United States leadership in this area, and the need to revise the NNP. S. 189 also retroactively would authorize the President to establish an NNCO to serve as the primary point of contact on Federal nanotechnology activities.

Legislative History On January 16, 2003, Senator Wyden introduced S. 189, the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act. This legislation was co-sponsored by Senators Allen, Lieberman, Warner, Mikulski, Hollings, Landrieu, Clinton, Levin, Bayh, Hutchison, Alexander, Rockefeller, Corzine, Kerry, Lautenberg, and Cantwell.

On May 1, 2003, the full Committee conducted a hearing on S. 189. At the hearing, the witnesses included: Dr. James Murday, Chief Scientist, Acting, Office of Naval Research; Dr. James Roberto, Associate Laboratory Director for Physical Sciences, Oak Ridge National Laboratory; Dr. Clayton Teague, Director, National Nanotechnology Coordination Office; Dr. Davis Baird, Professor and Chair, Department of Philosophy, University of South Carolina; Dr. Jun Jiao, Co-Director, Center for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology; Dr. Kent A. Murphy, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Luna Innovations; and Mr. James R. Von Ehr II, Chief Executive Officer, Zyvex Corporation.

Estimated Costs

In accordance with paragraph 11(a) of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate and section 403 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the Committee provides the following cost estimate, prepared by the Congressional Budget Office:

S. 189 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development

Summary: S. 189 would authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2004 through 2008 for the National Nanotechnology Program, comprised of various nanotechnology initiatives at nine agencies: the National Science Foundation (NSF), Department of Energy, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, National Institutes of Heath, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, and the Department of Agriculture. These programs, which involve technologies that manipulate matter at the atomic level, would be overseen by both external and intergovernmental committees. The bill also would direct the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to coordinate and manage the National Nanotechnology Program.

Assuming appropriation of the authorized amounts, CBO estimates that implementing this bill would cost $226 million in 2004 and a total of $3.4 billion over the 2004-2008 period. CBO estimates that enacting this bill would have no effect on direct spending or revenues.

S. 189 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) and would impose no costs on state, local, or tribal governments.

Estimated cost to the Federal Government: The estimated budgetary impact of S. 189 is shown in the following table. The costs of this legislation fall within budget functions 250 (general science, space, and technology), 300 (natural resources and the environment), 350 (agriculture), 376 (commerce and housing credit), 550 (health), and 750 (administration of justice).

By fiscal year, in millions of dollars

2004

2006

2008

SPENDING SUBJECT TO APPROPRIATION Spending under current law:

Estimated authorization level1 566 350 0 0 0 0

Estimated outlays 438 353 234 91 27 7 Proposed changes:

Estimated authorization level 0 446 876 965 1,022 1,082

Estimated outlays 0 226 520 771 915 1,000 Spending under S. 189:

Estimated authorization level 566 796 876 965 1,022 1,082

Estimated outlays 438 579 754 862 942 1,007

1The 2003 level reflects agencies' estimates of the amount appropriated for nanotechnology programs that year. The 2004 level is the amount authorized to be appropriated for NSF's nanotechnology program under current law.

Basis of estimate: For this estimate, CBO assumes that the amounts authorized will be appropriated each year and that outlays will occur at rates similar to those of existing research and development programs. S. 189 would specify funding levels for each of the agencies for a total of $796 million in 2004 and a total of $4.7 billion for the 2004-2008 period. (The $350 million specified for NSF's program for 2004 is not included in the table as a proposed change because that amount has already been authorized under current law.) The amounts specified in the bill would not cover costs associated with the external advisory functions and studies, but such costs would not be significant.

Intergovernmental and private-sector impact: S. 189 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in UMRA and would impose no costs on state, local, or tribal governments.

Previous CBO estimate: On May 5, 2003, CBO transmitted a cost estimate for H.R. 766, the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003, as ordered reported by the House Committee on Science on May 1, 2003. The estimated cost of implementing S. 189 is higher than for H.R. 766 because the Senate bill would authorize appropriations for more agencies (nine instead of five) and for a longer period of time (through 2008 instead of 2006).

Estimate prepared by: Federal Costs: Kathleen Gramp and Jenny Lin. Impact on State, Local, and Tribal Governments: Greg Waring. Impact on the Private Sector: Jean Talarico.

Estimate approved by: Paul R. Cullinan, Chief for Human Resources Cost Estimate Unit, Budget Analysis Division.

In accordance with paragraph 11(b) of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee provides the following evaluation of the regulatory impact of the legislation, as reported: number of persons covered

The Committee believes that the bill would not subject any individuals or businesses affected by the legislation to any additional regulation. economic impact

This legislation authorizes significant funding for research and development in nanoscale science and technology. However, it is not expected to have an adverse impact on the nation. privacy

This legislation would not have a negative impact on the personal privacy of individuals. paperwork

This legislation would not increase the paperwork requirement for private individuals or businesses.

This legislation would require the following reports

(1) an annual report by the NSTC to the House of Representatives Committee on Science and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on the program budget for the current fiscal year for each participating agency by December 31 of such year;

(2) an annual report due at the time of the President's budget request by the NSTC to the House of Representatives Committee on Science and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on the proposed program budget for each participating agency for the next fiscal year, the progress made toward achieving the goals and priorities established for the program, an analysis of the extent to which the program has incorporated the recommendations of the Advisory Panel and American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center, and an assessment of how the agencies are using Small Business Innovative Research and Small Business Technology Transfer Research;

(3) a report, not less frequently than once every two years, by the Advisory Panel to the President, the House of Representatives Committee on Science, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on its assessments and recommendations for ways to improve the program;

(4) a triennial review conducted by the National Research Council evaluating the program's technical success, management and coordination, and funding levels; and

(5) an annual report by the Director of the NSF describing the activities of the American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center.

Section-by-Section Analysis Section 1. Short Title

Section 1 would cite the title as the "21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act".

Section 2. National Nanotechnology Program

Subsection (a) would authorize the President to implement a National Nanotechnology Program. The Program would use the appropriate agencies, councils, and NNCO to establish goals, priorities, grand challenges, and metrics for evaluation for Federal nanotechnology research, development, and other activities. It also would fund and coordinate basic nanoscience and nanoengineering research among Federal agencies, academic laboratories, and the private sector.

Subsection (b) states that the Program's goals would include: the development of a fundamental understanding of matter that enables control and manipulation at the nanoscale; the assurance of continued United States global leadership in nanotechnology; the advancement of United States productivity and industrial competitiveness through stable, consistent, and coordinated investments in long-term nanotechnology research; the development of a network of shared facilities and centers among nanotechnology researchers; the acceleration of the deployment and application of nanotechnology to the private sector; the establishment of a program to provide education and training; and the assurance that legal, ethical, environmental and other concerns will be considered.

Subsection (c) also would authorize the NSTC or its designated subgroup, to develop, within 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act and to update every 4 years thereafter, a strategic plan to meet the goals and priorities of the Program and guide the activities and anticipated outcomes of the participating agencies. The strategic plan would include a description of how the Program will move results out of the laboratory and into application for the benefit of society, support for long-term funding for multidisciplinary research and development in technology, and dedication of funding for interagency nanotechnology projects.

The NSTC also would be authorized to provide for the establishment of interdisciplinary nanotechnology research centers on a merit-reviewed, competitive basis. These centers would be established in geographically diverse centers including at least one center in a State participating in the NSF's Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR). The Committee encourages the participation of minority serving institutions at these centers. In addition, the Committee recognizes that societal and ethical issues related to nanotechnology research need to be considered throughout the research cycle. The Committee would encourage the interdisciplinary nanotechnology centers and the American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center to collaborate on basic research to study the societal and ethical effects of their scientific research. This research may be conducted with the participation of other centers, universities, companies, and organizations.

Subsection (d) would authorize the President to establish a NNCO with full-time staff. The NNCO would provide technical and administrative support to the NSTC and the NNAP; serve as the point of contact on Federal nanotechnology activities for government organizations, academia, industry, professional societies, State nanotechnology programs, interested citizen groups, and others; conduct public outreach, including dissemination of findings and recommendations of the Advisory Panel; and establish an office to promote access to and early application of the technologies, innovations, and expertise derived from Program activities to Federal agencies and United States industries, including start-up companies. In conducting public outreach, the Committee encourages the NNCO to consider the use of citizen panels and other forums to improve the interaction and information dissemination between experts and the general public.

Subsection (e) would require an annual report by the NSTC to the House of Representatives Committee on Science and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on the Program budget for the current fiscal year for each participating agency by December 31 of such year. In addition, it would require an annual report due at the time of the President's budget request by the NSTC to the House of Representatives Committee on Science and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on the proposed program budget for each participating agency for the next fiscal year, the progress made toward achieving the goals and priorities established for the program, an analysis of the extent to which the program has incorporated the recommendations of the NNAP and the American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center, and an assessment of how the agencies are using Small Business Innovative Research and Small Business Technology Transfer Research.

Section 3. Advisory Panel

Subsection (a) would direct the President to establish or designate a National Nanotechnology Advisory Panel.

Subsection (b) would set criteria for the members of the NNAP. The NNAP would consist primarily of individuals who are non-Federal members and shall include representatives of academia and industry that are qualified to provide advice and information on nanotechnology research, development, demonstrations, education, technology transfer, commercial application, or societal and ethical concerns. The President would be authorized to seek and give consideration to recommendations from Congress, industry, the scientific community (including the NAS), scientific professional societies, academia, the defense community, State and local governments, regional nanotechnology programs, and other appropriate organizations.

Subsection (d) would require the NNAP to report, not less frequently than once every 2 fiscal years, to the President, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the House of Representatives Committee on Science on its assessments and recommendations for ways to improve the program. The first report would be submitted within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.

Section 4. Triennial External Review of Nanotechnology Research and Development Program

Subsection (a) would authorize the Director of the NSF to enter into an arrangement with the National Research Council (NRC) of the NAS to conduct a triennial evaluation of the Program and report on its findings. This evaluation would include a review of the technical successes and management of the program and agency funding levels; recommendations for new goals, research areas, investment levels, policy, budget and program changes, and metrics; a review of the NNCO's efforts to promote access to and application of technologies; and an analysis of the United States international competitive position.

Subsection (b) would require the Director of the NSF to transmit upon receipt the NRC report to the Panel, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the House of Representatives Committee on Science. The first NRC report would be transmitted no later than June 10, 2005, with subsequent evaluations transmitted every 3 years thereafter.

Section 5. Authorization of Appropriations

The NSF would be authorized to carry out the Act at the following levels: $350,000,000 for FY 2004; $385,000,000 for FY 2005; $424,000,000 for FY 2006; $449,000,000 for FY 2007; and $476,000,000 for FY 2008. Of the authorized amounts, $50,000,000 would be authorized for each fiscal year for grants of up to $5,000,000 each for interdisciplinary nanotechnology research centers. This legislation also would authorize $5,000,000 from the authorized amounts for each fiscal year for the university-based American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center. The legislation also would authorize $5,000,000 from the authorized amounts for each fiscal year for the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office, and an additional $5,000,000 from the authorized amounts for each fiscal year for the Center for Nanomaterials Manufacturing.

The bill also would authorize nanotechnology programs at the DOE at the following levels: $265,000,000 for FY 2004; $292,000,000 for FY 2005; $321,000,000 for FY 2006; $340,000,000 for FY 2007; and $360,000,000 for FY 2008. Of these amounts, $25,000,000 would be authorized for use for merit-reviewed and competitively based grants to support consortia that integrate newly developed nanotechnology and microfluidic tools with systems biology, immunology, and molecular imaging. The Committee recommends that at least one such consortium shall be provided with at least $10,000,000 for each fiscal year.

The legislation also would authorize funding for the following agencies at the following levels:

ANTICIPATED FUNDING AUTHORIZED BY THE 21ST CENTURY NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT

[In millions of dollars]

2004

2006

2008

NASA 31 34.1 37.5 40 42.3

NIH 70 77 85 90 95

NIST 62 68.2 75 80 84

EPA 5 5.5 6.05 6.413 6.8

Department of Justice 1 1.1 1.21 1.283 1.36

Department of Homeland Security 2 2.2 2.42 2.57 2.72

Department of Agriculture 10 11 12.1 12.83 13.6

Section 6. American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center

Subsection (a) would authorize the Director of the NSF to establish, using a merit-reviewed, competitively-based process, an American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center to encourage, conduct, coordinate, commission, collect, and disseminate research on the educational, legal, workforce, societal, and ethical issues related to nanotechnology. The American Nanotechnology Preparedness Center directly addresses the ethical and health concerns discussed in the background and needs section of this report.

Subsection (b) would authorize the Director of the NSF to work through the Center to conduct, coordinate, commission, collect, and disseminate studies on the educational, legal, workforce, societal, and ethical implications of nanotechnology, including anticipated issues and problems.

Subsection (d) would require the Director of the NSF to incorporate the workforce data into a report on the Center's activities to be submitted to the President, the NSTC, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the House of Representatives Committee on Science. The Director would be required to submit the report no later than 18 months after the enactment of this bill.

Section 7. Commercialization Issues Related to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology

Subsection (a) would authorize the Director of NIST to establish a center within NIST's Manufacturing Engineering Laboratory for issues relating to the commercialization of nanoscience and nanotechnology. The program Director would conduct basic research on issues relating to the development and manufacture of nanotechnology, including metrology, reliability and quality assurance, processes control, and manufacturing best practices. In addition, the Director would consult with the National Technical Information Service and the NNCO to act as a clearinghouse for information related to commercialization of nanoscience and nanotechnology research, including information regarding activities by regional, State, and local commercial nanotechnology initiatives; transition of research, concepts, and technologies from Federal nanotechnology research into commercial and military projects; best practices by government, university, and private sector laboratories transitioning technology to commercial use; examples of ways to overcome barriers and challenges to technology deployment; and use of existing manufacturing infrastructure and workforce.

Subsection (b) would require the Director of NIST to utilize the Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program, to the extent possible, to reach small- and medium-sized manufacturing companies.

Section 8. Definitions

This section would define key terms in the Act, including "Advisory Panel", "Fundamental Research", "Nanotechnology", "Program", "Council", and "Grand Challenge".


*******************

Article 318

I know the charge of the CAIB report was look at the causes and what can we do to increase safety. But, I want to talk about a larger policy decision, in light of what appears to be a rush back to business as usual, with a possible March launching date. It seems to me that there are reasonable arguments why a manned space flight should be, in effect, put on the shelf. And, it seems to me this committee, Mr. Chairman, this nation, needs to evaluate where we're going, what we want to accomplish, what should be the role of unmanned space flight.

We already know that we have the technology to shuttle some of the accommodations for the space station with robotics, with unmanned flight. We know that with new technology, nanotechnology, micro technology, we have the capacity to more efficiently explore outer space, than with manned space flight.

So, I guess, part of my question is, is by setting the goal of a March launch date, it almost feels like business as usual at NASA. The CAIB report cited unreasonable expectations for the shuttle program, both by Congress and NASA as one of the factors that detracted from the attention of some of the safety concerns.


+++++++++++++++++++

O'KEEFE: In part, in response, as we discussed with Mr. Carcineros (ph) went down a very thoughtful path on this as well, which is that this is the means by which we facilitate the completion of International Space Station to yield the science objectives that can only be accomplished in that micro-gravity condition. Can't duplicate that anywhere else. We can do it for a very short period of time, but we can't sustain the way that exists...

N. SMITH: ... to my knowledge, there hasn't been a good, quantitative evaluation of what can be accomplished with robotics and nanotechnology to accommodate a lot of this research that's being conducted.

Testimony in our research subcommittee indicate that a lot of it can be more effectively, more efficiently done with unmanned space flight, especially for outer space exploration, but also for the scientific experiments that have been conducted.


*******************

Article 319

308. $150,000 for the Vermont Broadband Council to expand broadband services in rural Vermont;

309. $1,200,000 for the City of Newport News, Virginia for the development of the Newport News Fine Arts Center;

310. $300,000 for the Art Museum of Western Virginia, Roanoke Virginia for the planning of the museum;

311. $500,000 for the Museum Development Authority, Seattle, Washington for costs associated with brownfields redevelopment;

312. $250,000 for the Kitsap County Consolidated Housing Authority, Bremerton, Washington for downtown revitalization;

313. $250,000 for the Washington Technology Center in Seattle for the Washington Nanotechnology Initiative;

314. $500,000 for the West Central Community Center, Spokane, Washington for costs associated with expansion;

315. $300,000 for Lutheran Community Services Northwest, SeaTac, Washington for the construction of a community services building;

316. $500,000 for the Compass Center in Seattle, Washington for the renovation and expansion of facilities;

317. $200,000 for Hope Home in Pasco, Washington for the purchase and renovation of a home for its program;


*******************

Article 320

DNA Backlog Elimination. Within the amount provided, $15,000,000 is available for Paul Coverdell Forensics Sciences Improvement grants, including $316,000 to improve the Idaho State Police's forensic capabilities.

Within the overall amounts recommended for the DNA Backlog Elimination Programs, the OJP should examine each of the following proposals, provide grants if warranted, and submit a report to the Committees on its intentions for each proposal:

$1,000,000 to Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, to improve its forensic laboratories;

$200,000 to Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island for a nanotechnology study of DNA sequencing methods;

$3,000,000 to the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division for continued funding to support the growing State and local law enforcement needs in the only full service forensic laboratory in South Carolina;

$1,000,000 to the University of Alabama at Birmingham's Forensic Science Institute;

$500,000 to establish a police science laboratory at Holyoke Community College, Massachusetts;

$1,000,000 for Honolulu, Hawaii, Police Department's Crime Lab Improvements;

$3,000,000 to Louisville, Kentucky, Regional Computer Forensic Laboratory;


*******************

Article 321

One of my surprising discoveries--embodied in what I call the Principle of Computational Equivalence--is that powerful computation is fundamentally common. Itt doesn't take a sophisticated CPU chip to be able to do computation. Simple programs do it. Like this one. Or like many of the ones in nature.

This has many deep implications for what can and cannot be done in science. But it also immediately suggests that we can use much simpler elements to make computers. Which for example points to a new approach to nanotechnology.

Over the past year, my book has stimulated great activity in many scientific and technical communities. As well, of course, as some of the turbulence one should expect in any potential paradigm shift.


*******************

Article 322

L. SMITH: As I talk to other scientific groups, including JPL, we don't have a good, quantitative evaluation of the science research. Some have suggested, well, once we get the space station up and running and get it fully manned, maybe we can do some really constructive research.

But it would be my opinion -- and for any board member that -- for any of the witnesses that would like to comment -- that manned space flight can contribute a great deal to the additional information of how humans acclimate themselves in outer space.

And maybe part of that is do we intend to put people of this country into outer space for longer periods of time. We've been in this endeavor for quite a while. And with the new technology of, not only robotics, but of nanotechnology and miniaturization, tremendous potential for unmanned space flight, it seems to me. Would there be any comment from the witnesses?

GEHMAN: We did not evaluate that. But if anybody wants to comment, help themselves. We did not look into that.

L. SMITH: How might we best -- you know, I think it's exciting to have high school students put in research projects. But in terms of real valuable scientific research, it's probably not substantial in contributing to our research efforts. We're now reducing funding for NIH to develop better research on health. We're now reducing research dollars for the National Science Foundation which I oversee in our Research Subcommittee in terms of basic or fundamental research.


*******************

Article 323

The under-funding of NIST labs is not a new problem. Today we are considering the Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations bill on the floor. The funding levels for NIST labs in this bill are $30 million below the President's request, and flat compared to the FY03 appropriations. This leaves many of NIST's vital initiatives under-funded and, in addition, because substantial funds are needed for mandatory cost-of-living increases, would result in a reduction-in-force of 50 scientists and staff from NIST labs. For the building and fire research lab, where NIST's NEHRP activities are based, the funding level in the FY04 bill is $3 million less than FY03 level.

Yet, NIST is an important institution to this Committee, which has given the Institute new responsibilities for programs including voting standards, building safety, fire safety (another bill we are considering here today), and nanotechnology. At some point we have to make a concerted effort to ensure NIST receives the money to carry out these important duties.

I respectfully request that report language for H.R. 2608 indicate that the Science Committee intends to work closely and forcefully with the other members of the NEHRP Interagency Coordinating Committee, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Chairman and Members of the Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations Subcommittee to insure that NIST receives adequate appropriations and support for these additional responsibilities. Thank you.


*******************

Article 324

Industry also thinks it's not. You mentioned the role of science and technology in economic growth. It's not just the National Academy that says that, it's industry itself that says that. It's an odd couple, the Brooking Institution and the American Enterprise Institute both agree that that's true.

As time goes on, the last big thing for industry like telecommunications equipment, laptop computers, cell phones, all these become commodities. And production and the jobs that go with them move offshore to lower class places. What the U.S. economy needs is the next big thing, and the DOE's programs in such areas as nanotechnology, quantum computing, or perhaps something that has not yet emerged clearly, may very well supply it.

For the record, included in my written testimony is a letter to the president on this matter from a collection of Nobel Laureates and CEOs of high-tech industry. This is also an interesting combination coming together to talk about the importance of the physical sciences. Mr. Chairman, Congress needs to take a hard look at the situation of the physical sciences in the federal budget. Over the last 10 years, as can be seen clearly in the chart behind you, the NIH budget has gone up by more than a factor of two. That is a good thing. The National Science Foundation is on its way to doubling, and that is a good thing. The Department of Energy's Office of Science is down by 20 percent, and that is a bad thing.


*******************

Article 325

This knowledge is now being applied in novel ways by DOE science. We are going to attempt to use genetic techniques to harness microbes to eat pollution, create hydrogen, and absorb carbon dioxide. The possibilities here are tremendous. In the future, we may see communities of microbes absorbing the pollutants from coal fired power plants - including CO2 - making coal as clean a fuel source as hydropower.

I mentioned our five nanoscience centers. When they are all up and running by 2008, we'll have a suite of discovery centers unmatched by anything in the world. Each is connected to a major light or neutron source, allowing researches to literally see, move, and create at the atomic level. This is allowing design of nanoparticles that deliver medicines to specific cellular sites, such as cancer cells. I'm told they hope to develop materials that will self-repair stress cracks and other results of fatigue that can be used in aircraft and automobiles.

Our basic research has, of course, touched virtually every aspect of energy resources, production, waste, and storage. Examples include: High-energy lithium batteries, now in common use; non- brittle ceramics now used in engine turbines; and catalysts for more energy efficient processes in the chemical industry. We are also exploring the most basic questions about the nature of our universe. Office of Science researchers from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory found that the expansion of the universe is being accelerated by a previously undiscovered force we are calling "Dark Energy", and at Brookhaven we recently re-created a state of matter comparable to that which existed a microsecond after the big bang nearly14 billion years ago in order to study the early evolution of the universe.


*******************

Article 326

15. An increase of $250,000 for Rutgers for continued construction of a research and teaching facility on its Busch Campus in Piscataway, New Jersey;

16. An increase of $250,000 for Middle Tennessee State University for K-12 Science Education Enhancements;

17. An increase of $500,000 for the Northwestern University's Institute for Proteomics and Nanotechnology;

18. An increase of 2,300,000 for the NASA Illinois Technology Commercialization Center at DuPage County Research Park;

19. An increase of $300,000 to develop a high temperature nanotechnology research program;

20. An increase of $300,000 for a national Communications, Navigation, and Surveillance test bed;

21. An increase of $300,000 for the Biological and Physical Research Rack on the ISS;

22. An increase of $500,000 for the Industrial Technology Institute at Cleveland State University;

23. An increase of $800,000 for an Aerospace Education Center in Cleveland, Ohio;



*******************

Article 327

In our structural materials, if we have small crack that tends to grow and propagate until ultimately we have structural failure, it would be great if we could find some way to have materials heal themselves. And at the basic research level, we've already found that. We've done some plastics now that can heal themselves when they start to have cracks. We want to continue that kind of work into the future.

You know that we've put a lot of effort into nanotechnology. I don't think I need to speak about that at great length right now. In addition, we are swinging much of our resources into the space community right now. Four years ago, my predecessor noted that we had about 11 percent of our technology money related to space technology. And he set about to double that. Right now, we have about 23 percent of our overall science and technology program dedicated to space technologies.

And then the final area up there, directed energy, this is an area that is about to explode upon the U.S. military. In much the same way that the Stealth technology changed warfare in the late '70s and '80s and precision guided munitions and GPS have changed things in the '90s, I'm convinced that directed energy technology is going to change the way we fight wars in the 21st century.


*******************

Article 328

The Committee recommendation also includes $4,000,000 to fund a demonstration of a stand-alone stirling engine that will run on any fuel. The engine shall be a portable, closed-cycle, reciprocating, and regenerative heat engine used in conjunction with an electrical generator to convert heat, external to the engine, into electricity and usable thermal power. This engine should be combined with an advanced vapor compression distillation system for making drinking water from virtually any water source. The water system shall remove all contaminants, including volatile compounds. The goal of the combined stirling and water system is to provide safe water and power in remote rural areas. The value and efficiency of the combined system will come from using the emission free engine's waste heat to help power the water purifier. The demonstration of this technology should take place on Native American reservations.

Molecular Medicine. The Committee recommendation includes an additional $6,000,000 for programs that bring together PET imaging, systems biology and nanotechnology to develop new molecular imaging probes. These probes should provide a biological diagnosis of disease that is informative of the molecular basis of disease and specific for guiding the development of new molecular therapies. The programs must bring together chemists, physicists, biologists and imaging scientists to produce new technologies and science in the stated area. The particular disease orientation is in cancers such as breast, prostrate, colorectal, melanoma and others and degenerative neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.

The Committee is concerned about consequence mitigation activities and public health impacts associated with the threat of any radiological event and strongly encourages the Department to develop therapeutic radiological countermeasures to protect against exposure to the effects of ionizing radiation. The Committee is aware of the potential of inositol signaling molecules as a therapy for exposure to ionizing radiation and encourages the Department to support research of this emerging technology. The Committee recommends the Science and Technology Division of the Department of Energy fund medical therapy research arid other treatment options to protect the public health against radiation exposure. basic energy sciences


*******************

Article 329

The Committee recommendation for basic energy sciences is $1,016,575,000, an increase of $8,000,000 over the budget request. For purposes of reprogramming during fiscal year 2004, the Department may allocate funding among all operating accounts within Basic Energy Sciences.

Research. The Committee recommendation includes $575,711,000 for materials sciences and engineering, and $220,914,000 for chemical sciences, geosciences, and energy biosciences. The additional $8,000,000 in the material sciences and engineering account is provided to increase operating time and enhance user support at Basic Energy Sciences user facilities. Also included within this account is $7,673,000 for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR), the same as the budget request.

Construction. The Committee recommendation includes $219,950,000 for construction, the same as the requested amount. The Committee recommendation provides the requested funding of $124,600 for the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS), $35,000,000 for the Molecular Foundry, $29,850,000 for the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies, $20,000,000 for the Center for Nanophase Material Sciences, $7,500,000 for PED for the Linac Coherent Light Source, and $3,000,000 for PED for the Center for Functional Nanomaterials at Brookhaven National Laboratory. advanced scientific computing research

The Committee continues to support efforts to advance U.S. supercomputing technology and is encouraged that the President's fiscal year 2004 budget identifies supercomputing as a critical component of its Networking and Information Technology Research and Development program. The Committee views the Department of Energy as a key player in the Federal government's efforts in supercomputing. At the same time, the Committee recognizes that a number of other Federal agencies are involved with the development of, and have critical needs for, more advanced computing capabilities. The Committee notes that the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) has recently established the multi-agency High End Computing Revitalization Task Force (HEC RTF). This task force, of which the Department is a participant, has been charged with developing a coordinated, interagency plan for supercomputing research and development that addresses issues of capability, capacity, and accessibility for scientific applications. The Committee strongly supports this interagency HEC RTF effort, and expects the Department to participate fully and to follow the HEC RTF plan for ongoing and future research and development, facility operations, and hardware procurement of its advanced scientific computing resources.


*******************

Article 330

, by fulfilling this mission over the years, the Office of Science has played a leading role in maintaining U.S. leadership in scientific computation worldwide. Consider some of the innovations and contributions made by DOE's Office of Science:

* helped develop the Internet; * pioneered the transition to massively parallel supercomputing in the civilian sector;

* began the computational analysis of global climate change;

* developed many of the DNA sequencing and computational technologies that have made possible the unraveling of the human genetic code; and

* opened the door for major advances in nanotechnology and protein crystallography.


*******************

Article 331

G6+4,000

Nanostructured Materials for Advanced AF Concepts

G6+5,500

Strategic Partnership for Research in Nanotechnology

G6+10,000

Durable Hybrid Coatings for Aircraft Systems

G6+2,000

Thermal Sprays for Structural Protection

G6+3,200

Nanotechnology Research

G6+1,500

*******************

Article 332

REP. BARTLETT: I wanted to talk for just a moment about evaluation of performance. You've got to measure that against something. Clearly what the labs are doing today is quite different from what they used to do. The labs used to design and build and maintain nuclear weapons.

Now we no longer design and build nuclear weapons, we maintain nuclear weapons. The metamorphosis from what the labs used to do to what they're now doing, I was at Sandia years ago and I noticed they're very focused on nanotechnology, they're very focused on alternative energies, and these are both very good things. Was there a conscious effort to change the mission -- some of the missions of the labs, or did they just kind of wander there?

You know, clearly the focus of the labs has changed because we no longer design and build nuclear weapons. We now have a number of labs that are focused entirely on maintaining the stockpile. How did we get to where we are now? Was it a conscious directed metamorphosis, or did we just kind of get there?


*******************

Article 333

To try to identify the net value of medical technology itself, several studies have attempted to measure the value of specific kinds of innovations. A number of studies have examined outcomes for specific illnesses, such as heart attacks and depression, where the impact of specific changes in technology can be examined more closely. While none of these studies are completely convincing in themselves, they generally show that medical innovation has greatly increased value, that is, the value of the improved health is far larger than the increase in spending.

The reasons are quite intuitive. Individuals are living longer and better lives, because our nation is making real progress in the quality of medical care for many conditions. While the achievements of health improvements in past decades have been impressive, recent progress in genomics, proteomics, nanotechnology, information technology, and many other fields promise even greater improvements in our lives in the years ahead.

We achieved the improvements of the last few decades without a sophisticated science of genomics - the human genome was sequenced in just the last few years. Genomically-based drugs, and gene and tissue therapies based on genomic sciences, are making up a growing number of the new drugs entering clinical trials. We also achieved our recent progress without the new science of proteomics, and an increasingly sophisticated understanding of how gene and protein expression interact to cause disease in individual patients. We also did it without a new generation of increasingly powerful biomedical tools based on the latest information technology that can enable sophisticated systems for supporting effective medical decision-making. These additional tools increase the future potential for more effective, more targeted, even individualized medical treatments that can cure or at least slow or halt disease progression.


*******************

Article 334

III. MOORE TOOL COMPANY

One of the best examples of the criticality of our industry can be demonstrated by the government contracting experience of another AMT member, the Moore Tool Company, headquartered in Bridgeport, Connecticut. To illustrate, let me give you an overview of the past 18 months. During that period, the Moore Tool Company completed the following projects for United States Government agencies: for the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, they built one optical flycutter and two Nanotech 350 4-axis diamond turning lathes; for the Los Alamos Laboratories, they built two spherical measuring machines for nuclear components, one parting lathe for the disassembly of nuclear components, and one special L-base lathe for nuclear components, plus one special L-base lathe for nuclear components and one Nanotech 350 diamond turning lathe for the same purpose; for the Sandia National Laboratories, they built one

-3-

Nanotech 350 diamond turning lathe; for the Y-12 Oak Ridge facility they built one special grinder for nuclear components, and one 5-axis jig borer; and finally, for Hill Air Force Base, they undertook various rebuilding and re-controlling projects.


*******************

Article 335

Hearings

The Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness and Response held a joint hearing with the Subcommittee on Health of the Committee on Energy and Commerce on "Furthering Public Health Security: Project Bioshield" on March 27, 2003. The Subcommittee received testimony from: The Honorable Tommy Thompson, Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Mr. Leighton Read M.D., General Partner, Alloy Ventures, on behalf of Biotechnology Industry Organization; Mr. Michael Friedman M.D., Chief Medical Officer for Biomedical Preparedness, PhRMA; Mr. James Baker Jr., Ruth Dow Doan Professor, Center for Biological Nanotechnology; and, Mr. Gary Noble M.D., Vice President of Medical and Public Affairs, Johnson & Johnson, on behalf of AdvaMed.

The Full Committee held a hearing on "Bioshield: Countering the Bioterrorist Threat" on May 15, 2003. The Committee received testimony from: Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases; Dr. L. Garry Adams, Associate Dean for Research, Biodefense & Infectious Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, Texas A&M University; Dr. Clarence James Peters, Director for Biodefense, Center for Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases, University of Texas Medical Branch; Dr. Ronald Crystal, Professor and Chairman, Department of Genetic Medicine, Weill Medical College of Cornell University; William A. Haseltine, Ph.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Human Genome Sciences, Inc.; Alan Pemberton, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America; Robert J. Sutcliffe, Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Digital Gene Technologies, Inc.; and, Frank M. Rapoport, Partner, McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP.


*******************

Article 336

Myelodysplasia and Myeloproliferative Disorders. The Committee is pleased with NCI's efforts to address the lack of basic knowledge about myelodysplasia and myeloproliferative disorders, two very different types of chronic diseases of bone marrow cells that can develop into acute leukemia. The Committee urges NCI to carry out the recommendations of its recent conference of experts on these diseases and advance new research initiatives into developing effective treatments.

Nanosystems Biology. The Committee encourages NCI to support a collaborative effort to bring nanotechnology, systems biology and molecular imaging together to examine the molecular basis of cancer. Initial efforts have shown that cancers such as breast cancer are not a single disease, but may encompass many different diseases, when examined at the molecular level. Many clinical trials of new drugs are now considered to fail if only 10 percent of patients benefit, yet the 10 percent may represent a specific type of the disease, where the drug may be 100 percent effective. Bringing these three disciplines together may allow researchers to identify specific sub-types of cancer and to better target new interventions. Successful results of such an effort could lead to a molecular classification of many types of cancer and to targeted molecular treatments for molecular-specific diseases.

Neurofibromatosis. Neurofibromatosis [NF] research has significant potential for cancer patients since NF genes have been implicated in the signaling processes that determine cell growth and cell differentiation. It will contribute to the development of new technologies and enhance understanding of the fundamental processes of both cancer and NF. The Committee encourages NCI to intensify and expand its NF research portfolio in such areas as molecular biology, development of animal models, natural history studies, malignant transformation in tumors, therapeutic intervention, and clinical trials. It recommends that NCI use all available mechanisms, including requests for applications, program announcements, and the national cooperative drug discovery group program to achieve this end. The Committee expects NCI to coordinate its efforts with other Institutes where appropriate and to be prepared to report on its progress at the fiscal year 2005 appropriations hearings. The Committee thanks NCI for conducting phase II clinical trials of NF1 patients with plexiform neurofibromas. Finally the Committee encourages NCI to increase its NF research portfolio in such areas as further development of animal models, natural history studies, therapeutic experimentation, and clinical trials.


*******************

Article 337

Specifically, our policies aim to promote innovation, support entrepreneurship, improve infrastructure and empower people.

To promote innovation, the President has proposed aggressive investments in new research and development - $123 billion for 2004, up more than 25 percent since taking office, with significant increases in critical emerging technologies such as nanotechnology and biotech. This will help ensure an ongoing innovation pipeline and a well-trained science and technology workforce. We have also been asking Congress to make the research and experimentation tax credit permanent, to reflect the importance of private investments in R&D, which are twice as large as government's. We are trying to strengthen intellectual property protection - by devoting far more resources to the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office within the Commerce Department, overhauling its policies and procedures to speed operations and improve quality, and by enforcing intellectual property rights aggressively at home and abroad. The President also launched an initiative to improve math and science teaching at the K-12 level, devoting $1 billion through the National Science Foundation and Department of Education over five years.


*******************

Article 338

We have moved into a new arena of "transatlantic domestic policy" - a new frontier in which specific social and economic concerns and transnational actors often jump formal borders, override national policies, and challenge traditional forms of governance throughout the Atlantic world. Many of the issues confronting European and American policy makers today are those of "deep integration," a new closeness that strikes at core issues of domestic governance, and that is of a qualitatively different nature than the "shallow integration" model of the Bretton Woods-GATT system established at the end of World War II. Deep integration is generating new transatlantic networks and connections. But because it reaches into traditionally domestic areas it can also generate social dislocation, anxiety and friction, as on such issues as food safety or competition policy. At the same time, European and American scientists and entrepreneurs are pushing the frontiers of human discovery in such fields as genetics, nanotechnology and electronic commerce where there are neither global rules nor transatlantic mechanisms to sort out the complex legal, ethical and commercial tradeoffs posed by such innovation. Neither the framework for our relationship nor the way our governments are currently organized adequately captures these new realities. Across the Atlantic such quasi-domestic issues need to be managed through new and more effective forms of transatlantic regulatory and parliamentary consultation and coordination, and more innovative diplomacy that takes account of the growing role of private actors. If we are serious about a Transatlantic Marketplace, then the U.S. and the European Union must work systematically together to develop joint or complementary approaches to such areas as financial services and capital markets, aviation, the digital economy, competition policy, or performance of our regulatory systems.


*******************

Article 339

Under present law, if a product is not approved by the FDA, then it is unlawful to provide that product to an individual, unless the product has been authorized for distribution under an investigational new drug (IND) application (for a drug and biologic) or an investigational device exemption (IDE). When a drug or device is available under such procedures, a number of conditions apply that make the use of an IND or IDE infeasible in times of national emergency, where drugs and devices may need to be deployed at rapid rates. Even if a drug, biologic, or device is highly promising in treating a disease or condition associated with biological chemical radiological or nuclear agents, and even if it is the only therapy available, current FDA law does not allow for rapid deployment of the product.

Hearings The Subcommittee on Health held a joint hearing with the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness and Response of the Select Committee on Homeland Security on "Furthering Public Health Security: Project Bioshield" on March 27, 2003. The Subcommittee received testimony from: The Honorable Tommy Thompson, Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Mr. Leighton Read M.D., General Partner, Alloy Ventures, on behalf of Biotechnology Industry Organization; Mr. Michael Friedman M.D., Chief Medical Officer for Biomedical Preparedness, PhRMA; Mr. James Baker Jr., Ruth Dow Doan Professor, Center for Biological Nanotechnology; and, Mr. Gary Noble M.D., Vice President of Medical and Public Affairs, Johnson & Johnson, on behalf of AdvaMed.

Committee Consideration On Thursday, May 15, 2003, the Full Committee met in open markup session and ordered a Committee Print reported to the House, as amended, by voice vote. A request by Mr. Tauzin to allow a report to be filed on a bill to be introduced by Mr. Tauzin, and that the actions of the Committee be deemed as actions on that bill, was agreed to by unanimous consent.



*******************

Article 340

Collins has targeted five key areas for manufacturing research and development. We will invest in emerging technologies to intelligent enterprise systems and that are utilized in common factories for both military and commercial products. The old models for time to market and unique factories do not work and require new advanced transformation concepts.

Technologies such as nanotechnology's or embedded parts in circuit cards are areas which we are pursuing. We cannot compete on the raw printed circuit cards which we produce today. Ninety- five percent of circuit cards are produced outside the US. We can compete for circuit card production if new processes for embedding parts, mass customization and production at point of need are successfully and affordably met. Keys to meeting these requirements are enabled by eliminating handoffs and making all intelligent systems and knowledge management processes seamless.

Fifty-five percent of Rockwell Collins materiel comes from small businesses. With the reduced number of new aircraft production and reduced retrofits ---- our supply base is changing. With the lower volumes and the change in type of parts--- due to new advanced technology ,------ it has forced our suppliers to look to different markets. We utilize our supply chain during our design process, which improves our interoperability and availability. BUT -- Our increase in military avionics has not been able to offset the gap established by the downturn in commercial avionics. Small enterprises typically lack the incentive, finances and technical resources to improve costs and cycle times. The Air Force's MANTECH program as used for the JDAM missile, is an exception and provided cycle time reductions of 60 percent and 45 percent inventory reductions and can be used as a model .


*******************

Article 341

The situation as it exists today certainly does not help promote trade. In fact, it is currently driving potential customers to our European and Japanese competitors. Let me provide specific examples of how the visa process is hurting U.S. companies.

-Moore Nanotechnology Systems, a small manufacturer based in Connecticut, recently sold a $500,000 machine to a university in China. When after five months one of the university's professors had not received a visa, and no one could get any information regarding the status of the visa, the customer cancelled his contract. This single sale would have accounted for 10% of Moore's revenue in 2002.

-Cincinnati Machine, my company, sold $5 million worth of equipment to Chengdu Aircraft in China. After a vigorous export license review, we received the export license to be able to ship the machines to Chengdu. In the normal course of satisfying a contract of this nature, a delegation of Chengdu engineers and managers must come to Cincinnati to inspect the equipment prior to it being shipped. Unfortunately, it took six months for the visas to be approved. During this time, I had $5 million of inventory which I was unable to ship and collect the payments on. From the customer's perspective, he fell behind in commitments to his customer by approximately five months while the machines collected dust in Cincinnati.


*******************

Article 342

So you are putting on the map with this hearing the moment to decide whether successful aging in America is an opportunity or a problem. And I would argue that it is an opportunity that only bad public policies turn it into a problem. I believe if you look at the total range of scientific breakthroughs, that we are developing at about four times the speed we were in the 20th century. That is, literally between 2000 and 2025 I think we will have as many breakthroughs in new science and new technology as we had in the entire 20th century.

Information technology, biology and nanoscale science and technology are the key areas. And let me point out that Dr. Sam Stupp, who is a world class specialist in nanoscale science, is working on and believes, at a firm called NanoMateria, that within a decade we will begin to see the ability to regenerate spinal cord injuries, to potentially regenerate retinas and that this kind of breakthrough, this consistent evolution, is really, really important in developing the future. If I could draw sharply the contrast, something that Bill Novelli, the head of AARP, has talked about a lot.

Baby boomers want a second start. They don't want a long retirement, they don't want a period of doing nothing, they don't want to decay, they don't want to be a burden. They want to see the years of aging as a process of healthy, independent living where they are doing interesting things in a way that is significant.


*******************

Article 343

The importance of these fields cannot be overstated. It will affect almost every aspect of our lives, from the medicines we use, to the power of our computers, the energy supplies we require, to the food we eat, the cars we drive, the buildings we live in and the clothes we wear.

The word "nano" means one-billionth and nanoscale is the space between one atom and about four hundred atoms. It is the space in which quantum behavior begins to replace the Newtonian physics you and I understand. The same laws of physics literally do not apply in the nanoworld.

In this world of atoms and molecules, new tools and techniques are enabling scientists to create entirely new approaches to health. Nanotechnology allows us to "grow" materials by literally adding the right atoms and molecules to one another. The possibilities for adding years to human longevity from the confluence of biotechnology and nanotechnology are simply staggering compared to even today's latest medical innovations.

One example is that nanotechnology makes possible the ability to grow molecular "helpers." For instance, we may be able to develop anti-cancer helper molecules that penetrate human cells without damage and hunt cancer at its earliest single cell development. Imagine drinking your orange juice with three million molecular rotor rooters to clean clogged arteries without an operation.

Not only does nanotechnology open up our understanding of biology, but also biology teaches us about the nanoworld, because virtually all biological activities are at a molecular level. Thus, our growing capabilities in nano-tools and nanohelpers will dramatically expand our understanding of biology while our growing knowledge about molecular biology will expand our understanding of the nanoworld.

Dr. Sam Stupp is a world-class expert in using nanomaterials uses molecular design to create self-assembling systems at the very basic levels of assembling atoms and molecules. In effect, he is studying how nature assembles the very basic components of our body.


*******************

Article 344

longevity and ways to improve quality of life. We know that to prolong life we must improve diagnostic methods to ensure early and reliable detection of disease and pathology; we must encourage individuals to make healthy lifestyle choices; and we must develop effective interventions for disease and disability.

We anticipate that our efforts to reach these goals will be influenced by findings from a number of emerging technological fields, including medical imaging, computational biology, proteomics, regenerative medicine, and even nanotechnology. The NIH is currently supporting research in all of these areas in the context of the NIH Roadmap initiative to enhance research infrastructure and methodology.

Longevity Research

An intriguing area of investigation is the analysis of genetic contributions to longevity. Research findings indicate that similar mechanisms and pathways regulate longevity in diverse species, including yeast, fruit flies, nematodes, and mice, and that equivalent mechanisms and pathways may exist in humans. 

*******************

Article 345

So you are putting on the map, with this hearing, the moment to decide whether successful aging in America is an opportunity or a problem. And I would argue that it is an opportunity, that only bad public policies turns it into a problem.

I believe that if you look at the total range of scientific breakthroughs that we are developing at about four times the speed we were in the 20th century; that is, literally between 2000 and 2025, I think we'll have as many breakthroughs in new science and new technology as we had in the entire 20th century. Information technology, biology and nanoscale science and technology are the key areas. And let me point out that Dr. Sam Stupp, who is a world-class specialist in nanoscale science, is working on and believes -- at a firm called NanoMateria -- that within a decade, we will begin to see the ability to regenerate spinal cord injuries, to potentially regenerate retinas and that this kind of breakthrough, this consistent evolution, is really, really important in developing the future.

If I could draw sharply the contrast -- something that Bill Novelli, the head of AARP has talked about a lot -- baby boomers want a second start. They don't want a long retirement. They don't want a period of doing nothing. They don't want to decay. They don't want to be a burden.


*******************

Article 346

2. March 5, 2003 hearing on "The Path to a Hydrogen Economy." Appearing as witnesses were (1) Mr. David Garman, Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy; (2) Dr. Allan C. Lloyd, Chairman, California Fuel Cell Partnership; (3) Dr. Joan Ogden, Research Scientist, Princeton Environmental Institute; (4) Dr. Larry Burns, Vice President, Research, Development and Planning, General Motors; and (5) Mr. Don Huberts, Chief Executive Officer, Shell Hydrogen.

3. March 19, 2003 hearing on "H.R. 766, The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003." Appearing as witnesses were (1) Senator George Allen (R-VA); (2) Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR); (3) Mr. Richard M. Russell, Associate Director for Technology, OSTP; (4) Dr. Thomas N. Theis, Director of Physical Sciences, IBM Research Division, Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown, New York; (5) Dr. James Roberto, the Associate Laboratory Director for Physical Sciences, Oak Ridge National Laboratory; (6) Dr. Carl A. Batt, Co-Director, Nanobiotechnology Center, Cornell University; and (7) Mr. Alan Marty, executive-in-residence, JP Morgan.

V. Committee Actions


*******************

Article 347

Part 3 Spallation Neutron Source Sec. 164. Definition.

Sec. 165. Report. Sec. 166. Limitations.

Part 4 Miscellaneous Sec. 167. Facility and infrastructure support for nonmilitary energy laboratories.

Sec. 168. Research regarding precious metal catalysis. Sec. 169. Nanotechnology research and development.

Sec. 170. Advanced scientific computing for energy missions. Sec. 170A. Nitrogen fixation.

Part 5 Genomes to Life Sec. 170B. Genomes to Life.


*******************

Article 348

The committee recommends an increase of $3.0 million in PE 63122D8Z to continue the program for development of facial recognition technology.

Integrated nano- and micro-manufacturing technology

The budget request contained $151.0 million in PE 61101E for Defense Research Sciences.

The committee notes on-going basic research in novel nanotechnologies that, when combined with innovative micromanufacturing materials and processes, could result in the ability to produce microsystems and nanosystems for a broad range of military and civilian applications.

The committee recommends an increase of $2.0 million in PE 61101E to continue basic research in integrated nano- and micro-manufacturing technology.

Magnetic Quadrupole Resonance Explosives Detection

The budget request contained $60.5 million in PE 63122D8Z for the Combating Terrorism Technology Support program.


*******************

Article 349

Secondly, I want echo and underscore previous comments about NASA's Human Space Flight Program. Virtually every aspect of NASA depends on the success of the shuttle and the Human Space Flight Program. Generally I'd look at space flight as a means to a greater end which is research and discovery and exploration and I know the brave crew of the Columbia engaged in a wide variety of scientific research and, in fact, research that only could be done in space. I truly believe that if anything good can come out of this tragedy it would be a reinvigorated focus on NASA and its primary mission of scientific research that actually benefits people here, life here on this plant. Some of the comments of the chairman, in my view, to the extent you end up funding extraneous matters that are not the primary focus of NASA, diminishes that capability.

Now, finally and thirdly, I've previously raised concerns about NASA in the area of one of its primary functions which is aeronautics and also insofar as space is concerned the advancements in technology specifically embracing some of the advancements in nanotechnology that I know Senator Wyden shares my views on as we automation and robotics that could potentially minimize the risks associated with human space flight. I'm interested in learning any specific areas where NASA is embracing some of these advancements in automation and robotics which I believe are essential for us here in Congress as well as NASA to work together to get that right balance of humans as well as the advancements in robotics and automation to function in these scientific research projects that are done in space.

And I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for having this hearing and thank both gentlemen for your leadership.

SEN. McCAIN: Thank you.


*******************

Article 350

I truly believe that if anything good can come out of this tragedy would be a reinvigorated focus on NASA and its primary mission of scientific research that actually benefits people here, life here on this planet. Some of the comments of the chairman, in my view, to the extent, I guess, you end up funding extraneous matters that are not the primary focus of NASA, diminishes that capability.

Now finally, thirdly, I have previously raised concerns about NASA in the area of one of its primary functions, which is aeronautics and also, in so far as space is concerned, the advancements in technology; specifically, embracing some of the advancements in nanotechnology, that I know Senator Wyden shares my views on, as well as automation and robotics, that could potentially minimize the risks associated with human space flight.

I am interested in learning any specific areas where NASA is embracing some of these advancements in automation and robotics, which I believe are essential for us here in Congress, as well as NASA, to work together to get that right balance of humans, as well as the advancements in robotics and automation, to function in these scientific research projects that are done in space.

And I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for having this hearing, and thank both gentlemen for your leadership.



*******************

Article 351

The committee believes that the Navy will have to conduct significant experimentation to determine the utility of the LCS concept. The focused mission modules are required to enable that experimentation, yet the Navy failed to fully fund focused mission modules in the budget request. The committee believes that before committing to production of more than a few ships, the Navy should have determined, through analysis and experimentation, that this ship will deliver the Navy's expected capabilities. To accelerate this process, the committee recommends an increase of $35.0 million in PE 63581N for LCS modules.

Non-lethal weapons

The budget request included $19.7 million in PE63635M for Marine Corps ground combat/supporting arms systems but no funding for non-lethal weapons development. Non-lethal weapons development includes weaponization of technology, reactive nanoparticles (RNP) for facility clearing, and the urban operations laboratory.

The weaponization of technology program explores the Marine Corps' ability to neutralize facilities and the threats and personnel associated with these facilities. The committee understands that this program has the potential to reduce collateral damage to personnel and property over current man-power-intensive and destructive operations in urban environments. The committee notes that the Commandant of the Marine Corps identified a fiscal year 2004 unfunded requirement of $3.4 million for weaponization of technology.

The RNP for facility clearing program establishes an urban operations program that is focused on, but not limited to, the clearing of facilities with nanoparticles and other non-lethal weapon technologies. The committee understands that this program is working extensively on mapping the capabilities of nanoparticles and other technologies to the unique considerations within an urban environment and will develop strategic and implementation plans for recommendation to the Marine Corps. The committee notes that the Commandant of the Marine Corps identified a fiscal year 2004 unfunded requirement of $3.6 million for RNP.

The urban operations laboratory provides the Marine Corps with the assessment, analysis, and remediation capabilities to ensure acceptable risk and collateral damage effects on the use of lethal and nonlethal weapons within the urban environment. The committee notes that the Commandant of the Marine Corps identified a fiscal year 2004 unfunded requirement of $5.5 million for the continued operations and expansion of the urban operations laboratory.


*******************

Article 352

If I could ask one follow up from Secretary Garman. Based on your experience and your knowledge, what are the greatest challenges -- and I'd like for you to put these in priority order -- to the deployment of hydrogen fuel cell cars? What are the specific set of questions that we have to answer in list of importance as you look at this issue?

MR. GARMAN: Number one I would say is storage, storage of hydrogen onboard the vehicle. Consumers are only going to buy a vehicle that gives them range of 300 or 350 miles between refueling. And the nature, the physical nature of hydrogen is such that it's difficult to store in a manner without using a lot of weight and bulk. And weight and bulk is, in essence, the enemy of an auto maker in trying to design a car that consumers will want to buy. So the method of storing hydrogen today is by compressing it in a 5,000 or 10,000 pounds per square inch pressure vessel. We're looking at a various technologies like chemical hydrides, metal hydrides, carbon nanotubes; other types of materials that can store hydrogen at close to ambient temperatures and pressures. That I would say is number one.

Number two I would say is probably the cost of the hydrogen itself. It needs to be competitive with the cost of gasoline if we're going to get in the ballpark. Maybe down the road Congress can deal with some policy incentives in terms of how hydrogen is taxed or other things, but we've got to make sure that we can produce hydrogen close to the cost of its competitor before consumers will feel comfortable purchasing the car.


*******************

Article 353

SEC. 5. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

(a) In General. The President shall establish or designate an advisory committee on nanotechnology consisting of non-Federal members, including representatives of research and academic institutions and industry, who are qualified to provide advice and information on nanotechnology research, development, demonstration, education, technology transfer, commercial application, and societal and ethical concerns. The recommendations of the Advisory Committee shall be considered by Federal agencies in implementing the Program.

(b) Assessment. The Advisory Committee shall assess

(1) trends and developments in nanotechnology science and engineering;

(2) progress made in implementing the Program;

(3) the need to revise the Program;

(4) the balance among the components of the Program, including funding levels for the program component areas;

(5) whether the program component areas, priorities, and technical goals developed by the Interagency Committee are helping to maintain United States leadership in nanotechnology;

(6) the management, coordination, implementation, and activities of the Program; and

(7) whether societal and ethical concerns are adequately addressed by the Program.

(c) Reports. The Advisory Committee shall report not less frequently than once every 2 fiscal years to the President on its findings of the assessment carried out under subsection (b), its recommendations for ways to improve the Program, and the concerns assessed under subsection (b)(7). The first report shall be due within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.

(d) Federal Advisory Committee Act Application. Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the Advisory Committee.

SEC. 6. NATIONAL NANOTECHNOLOGY COORDINATION OFFICE.

The President shall establish a National Nanotechnology Coordination Office, with full-time staff, which shall

(1) provide technical and administrative support to the Interagency Committee and the Advisory Committee;

(2) serve as a point of contact on Federal nanotechnology activities for government organizations, academia, industry, professional societies, and others to exchange technical and programmatic information; and

(3) conduct public outreach, including dissemination of findings and recommendations of the Interagency Committee and the Advisory Committee, as appropriate. SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

(a) National Science Foundation. There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Science Foundation for carrying out this Act

(1) $350,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;

(2) $385,000,000 for fiscal year 2005; and

(3) $424,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

(b) Department of Energy. There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for carrying out this Act

(1) $265,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;

(2) $292,000,000 for fiscal year 2005; and

(3) $322,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

(c) National Aeronautics and Space Administration. There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for carrying out this Act

(1) $31,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;

(2) $34,000,000 for fiscal year 2005; and

(3) $37,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

(d) National Institute of Standards and Technology. There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Institute of Standards and Technology for carrying out this Act

(1) $62,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;

(2) $68,000,000 for fiscal year 2005; and

(3) $75,000,000 for fiscal year 2006.

(e) Environmental Protection Agency. There are authorized to be appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for carrying out this Act

(1) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;

(2) $5,500,000 for fiscal year 2005; and

(3) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2006. SEC. 8. EXTERNAL REVIEW OF THE NATIONAL NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

(a) In General. Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct periodic reviews of the Program. The reviews shall be conducted once every 3 years during the 10-year period following the enactment of this Act. The reviews shall include

(1) an evaluation of the technical achievements of the Program;

(2) recommendations for changes in the Program;

(3) an evaluation of the relative position of the United States with respect to other nations in nanotechnology research and development;

(4) an evaluation of the Program's success in transferring technology to the private sector;

(5) an evaluation of whether the Program has been successful in fostering interdisciplinary research and development; and

(6) an evaluation of the extent to which the Program has adequately considered societal and ethical concerns.

(b) Study on Molecular Manufacturing. Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act a review shall be conducted in accordance with subsection (a) that includes a study to determine the technical feasibility of the manufacture of materials and devices at the molecular scale. The study shall

(1) examine the current state of the technology for enabling molecular manufacturing;

(2) determine the key scientific and technical barriers to achieving molecular manufacturing;

(3) review current and planned research activities that are relevant to advancing the prospects for molecular manufacturing; and

(4) develop, insofar as possible, a consensus on whether molecular manufacturing is technically feasible, and if found to be feasible

(A) the estimated timeframe in which molecular manufacturing may be possible on a commercial scale; and

(B) recommendations for a research agenda necessary to achieve this result.

(c) Study on Safe Nanotechnology. Not later than 6 years after the date of enactment of this Act a review shall be conducted in accordance with subsection (a) that includes a study to assess the need for standards, guidelines, or strategies for ensuring the development of safe nanotechnology, including those applicable to

(1) self-replicating nanoscale machines or devices;

(2) the release of such machines or devices in natural environments;

(3) distribution of molecular manufacturing development;

(4) encryption;

(5) the development of defensive technologies;

(6) the use of nanotechnology as human brain extenders; and

(7) the use of nanotechnology in developing artificial intelligence.

*******************

Article 354

The Committee on Rules, having had under consideration House Resolution 219, by a nonrecord vote, report the same to the House with the recommendation that the resolution be adopted. summary of provisions of the resolution

The resolution provides for consideration of H.R. 766, the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003, under an open rule. The rule provides one hour of general debate equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Science.

The rule waives all points of order against consideration of the bill. The rule provides that the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The rule provides that the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Science now printed in the bill shall be considered as an original bill for the purpose of amendment. The rule provides that the bill shall be considered for amendment by section, and that each section shall be considered as read.


*******************

Article 355


Subtitle F Science

Sec. 961. Science. Sec. 962. United States participation in ITER.

Sec. 963. Spallation neutron source. Sec. 964. Support for science and energy facilities and infrastructure.

Sec. 965. Catalysis Research Program. Sec. 966. Nanoscale science and engineering research.

Sec. 967. Advanced scientific computing for energy missions. Sec. 968. Genomes to Life Program.

Sec. 969. Fission and Fusion Energy Materials Research Program. Sec. 970. Energy-Water Supply Technologies Program.

*******************

Article 356

DESCRIPTORS:  
    HOUSE RULES AND PROCEDURE; NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT



*******************

Article 357

Recommends passage, with an amendment in the nature of a substitute, of H.R. 766, the Nanotechnology R&D Act of 2003, to authorize an interagency program to support nanoscience research and nanotechnology development.
 
Nanoscience is the study and development of materials which have extremely small dimensions, as small as one-billionth of a meter. Applications include the use of nanoscale machines to improve manufacturing, biotechnology, and medicine.


*******************

Article 358

TO TRY OTHER NEW AND MORE EFFECTIVE TOOLS:

-Modify current law to allow NASA to request and implement a demonstration project, subject to OPM approval, without any limitation on the number of employees that would be covered by the project.

The use of undirected buyouts to reduce NASA's workforce during the 1990's has led to an imbalance of skills; too may in some areas not enough in emerging technologies (e.g., nanotechnology). In addition, NASA is confronted with convergence of three trends:

1. reduction in number of science and engineering graduates;

2. increased competition from traditional aerospace sector and non-aerospace sector for this reduced pool of scientists and engineers; and

3. increasing number of experienced NASA employees eligible for retirement.


*******************

Article 359

Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the committee, thank you for this opportunity to discuss Nanotechnology Research. You and the other members of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation have been leaders in calling attention, both nationally and in the Department of Defense, to the importance of funding basic research and to bringing new technology quickly from the scientist's bench to our Sailors and Marines.

Department of Defense Interest in Nanoscience

The Department of Defense (DoD) has been investing in fundamental nanoscience research for over 20 years. For instance, one of the early programs dating into the 1980s was Ultra-Submicron Electronics Research (USER). In 1997, the DoD identified several Science & Technonlogy (&T) topics with the potential for significant impact on military technology; nanoscience was selected as one of those special research area (SRA) topics (see Table 1 for illustrative impact examples). A DoD Nanoscience SRA coordinating committee was established; its current membership is: Dr. Gernot Pomrenke, Air Force; Dr. John Pazik, Navy; and Dr. William Mullins, Army. Further, each Service has a coordinating group to guide its nanoscience program. 

Since the DoD nanoscience programs are some 20 years old, one might expect to see transition successes. One example from each Service is illustrated here. Under Army funding Dr. Chad Mirkin, Northwestern University, has invented a way to utilize nanoclusters of gold for the sensitive, selective detection of DNA. This technology has been demonstrated to work for anthrax, has been commercialized by a start-up firm Nanosphere, and is under clinical evaluation. The Air Force is funding Triton Technologies Inc. under an Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program to insert nanostructured clay particles in polymers. One benefit of this composite is reduced gas permeability. This new material was marketed by Converse in athletic shoe heels with greater elasticity (He gas bubbles trapped by the low permeability polymer composite); the reduced permeability is also of interest for packages containing food, beverages and pharmaceuticals. The Navy is interested because nanoclay particles increase the fire resistance of organic composite materials for ship applications. Under Navy funding Inframat has developed a thermally sprayed coating of alumina/titania nanopowders. The properties of this coating are far superior to the micropowder equivalent; this product was one of the R&D Magazine selections as an R&D 100 award for the year 2000. The coating is presently under field evaluation on Naval ships.

Each Service has its own laboratory nanoscience programs. The Army efforts in nano-electronics, nano-optics, organic light emitting diodes and displays, sensors, and Nano-Electromechanical Systems (NEMS) are centered at Army Research Laboratory (ARL) Adelphi; the work on organic nano-materials is largely at ARL Aberdeen. The Army's Natick Soldier Center (NSC) also invests in innovative nanotechnology initiatives, including projects in nano- photonics, nano-composites, nano-fiber membranes and photovoltaics. The Air Force nano-materials program is largely centered at Wright Patterson AFB in Dayton. It has work on nano- composites, inorganic nano-clusters, nano-phase metals and ceramics, nanotribology, nanobiomimetics and nanoelectronics. The Navy program is centered at the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) in Washington DC. NRL has created a Nanoscience Institute with the goal of fostering interdisciplinary research that cuts across the NRL organizational structures. A new NRL Nanoscience Building will come on-line in the fall of 2003; it has been specially designed to minimize those noise sources that would limit the precision of nanostructure measurement / manipulation. To fully exploit this new building capability, NRL will welcome collaborations with external researchers.

In 2002, the Army established a University Affiliated Research Center (UARC), the Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies (ISN), at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), awarding a 5- year $50M contract for the development of nanoscale technologies for soldier performance and protection. ISN works in partnership with industry to produce revolutionary technologies to enhance soldier survivability in the battlespace. The industrial partners working with the ISN provide needed core competencies, expertise in transitioning technologies from the laboratory to the real world, and cost sharing. DoD contributions to National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) Planning/Reporting

The DoD has been an active participant in the initial Interagency Working Group on Nanostructures and its successor body, the Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology (NSET) committee. I, while a staff member at the Naval Research Laboratory, served as the first director of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office. In addition, several workshops have been executed by DoD scientists/engineers in support of revisions to the NNI implementation plan.

Nanoscience shows great promise for arrays of inexpensive, integrated, miniaturized sensors for chemical / biological / radiological / explosive (CBRE) agents, for nanostructures enabling protection against agents and for nanostructures that neutralize agents. The recent terrorist events motivated accelerated insertion of innovative technologies to improve the national security posture relative to CBRE. Since DoD has considerable experience in this topic, DoD scientists led the effort to redefine a NNI Grand Challenge to address this important topic. They also organized an AVS (formerly the American Vacuum Society) hosted workshop on Nanotechnology for CBRE Protection and Detection. The report for that workshop is available at: http://www.wtec.org/nanoreports/cbre/

In the National Defense Authorization Act of 2003, Section 246, addressed the Defense Nanotechnology Research and Development Program. It states that the Secretary of Defense shall carry out a defense nanotechnology research and development program. The purposes of the program are stated as: (1) To ensure United States global superiority in nanotechnology necessary for meeting national security requirements. (2) To coordinate all nanoscale research and development within the Department of Defense, and to provide for inter-agency cooperation and collaboration on nanoscale research and development between the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies of the United States that are involved in nanoscale research and development. (3) To develop and manage a portfolio of fundamental and applied nanoscience and engineering research initiatives that is stable, consistent, and balanced across scientific disciplines. (4) To accelerate the transition and deployment of technologies and concepts derived from nanoscale research and development into the Armed Forces, and to establish policies, procedures, and standards for measuring the success of such efforts. (5) To collect, synthesize, and disseminate critical information on nanoscale research and development.

The report directs the DoD Director of Defense Research and Engineering to submit to the congressional defense committees an annual report on the program. The report shall contain the following matters: (1) A review of-- (A) the long-term challenges and specific technical goals of the program; and (B) the progress made toward meeting those challenges and achieving those goals. (2) An assessment of current and proposed funding levels, including the adequacy of such funding levels to support program activities. (3) A review of the coordination of activities within the Department of Defense, with other departments and agencies, and with the National Nanotechnology Initiative. (4) An assessment of the extent to which effective technology transition paths have been established as a result of activities under the program. (5) Recommendations for additional program activities to meet emerging national security requirements

The DoD will prepare these reviews, assessments, and recommendations in conjunction with the related efforts for the NNI as a whole.

In closing, the Department of Defense investment in basic research over the last 20 years is paying off in transformational capabilities to the DoD. I have mentioned only a few examples within the DoD nanoscience Science & Technology program. I believe the Department of Defense successes in nanotechnology are significant, and I appreciate the opportunity to come before you today to tell you about them.

*******************

Article 360

My name is James Roberto, and I am the Associate Laboratory Director for Physical Sciences at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL). ORNL is a Department of Energy multiprogram laboratory managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, a partnership of the University of Tennessee and Battelle Memorial Institute. It is an honor to appear before the Committee in support of the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act. 

In my role at ORNL I oversee the physical sciences, including nanoscale science and technology. This includes the development of ORNL's Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences (CNMS), one of DOE's five planned Nanoscale Science Research Centers. The Nanoscale Science Research Centers are state-of-the-art user facilities for nanoscale science and technology that will be located at Argonne, Berkeley, Brookhaven, Los Alamos and Sandia, and Oak Ridge National Laboratories. Each Center will focus on nanoscale research and development that leverages the unique capabilities of the host laboratory including major synchrotron, neutron, and microfabrication facilities. The DOE nanotechnology centers will help fulfill a Presidential priority of providing American researchers with the foremost capability in this breakthrough technology. Not only will DOE researchers benefit from these centers, but also other agencies, U.S. industry and our universities will benefit from these new capabilities. The excitement surrounding nanoscale science and technology is real. The recent DOE Nanoscale Science Research Centers Workshop and National Users Meeting in Washington, D.C., attracted more than 400 scientists and engineers from 94 universities, 40 industries, and 15 federal laboratories. More than 2000 researchers have attended regional and national workshops for the DOE Nanoscale Science Research Centers. It is difficult to find a month without a national or international meeting in this field.

Nanoscale science and technology crosscuts the traditional disciplines of materials science, chemistry, physics, biology, computational science, and engineering. It occupies the frontiers of these fields and includes some of the most challenging research problems. The solutions to these problems offer a line- of-sight to technical advances of enormous potential in materials, information technology, healthcare, and national security. Many see nanotechnology as the basis of the next industrial revolution.

For the Department of Energy, the opportunities provided by nanoscale science and technology are unprecedented. Research on the synthesis and properties of nanoscale systems consisting of tens to thousands of atoms underpins progress in a multitude of high-impact fields including catalysis science, photovoltaics and thermoelectrics, sensor technology, high-performance alloys, advanced materials for fuel cells and hydrogen storage, and membrane technology. Applications include low-cost high- efficiency solar cells, materials 10-100 times the strength of steel at 1/6th the weight, energy-efficient "smart" coatings for windows, high-efficiency solid state lighting devices, and new catalysts for energy conversion and chemical processing. These applications offer enormous energy, national security, environmental, and economic benefits.

John Marburger, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, describes the nanotechnology revolution as one in which "the notion that everything is made of atoms has a real operational significance." This has been made possible by extraordinary tools such as synchrotron light sources, neutron sources, electron microscopes, scanning probe microscopes, and high-performance computers. These tools have enabled the atomic- scale characterization, manipulation, and simulation of complex assemblies of atoms and molecules. This is a "bottoms up" view of the physical world--Mother Nature's view-- that embraces breathtaking complexity and seemingly endless possibilities.

We are at a crossroads in the physical sciences. The boundaries between scientific disciplines are disappearing at the nanoscale. The study of simple, isolated systems is giving way to complex assemblies. We are moving from atomic-scale characterization to atomic-scale control, from miniaturization to self-assembly. Change is opportunity, and this paradigm shift for the physical sciences rivals other revolutions in science, such as the revolution in biology following the discovery of the molecular structure of DNA.

It is this opportunity, and the technological impact that will result, that underpin the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act. This Act is an important element of the strategy to strengthen the physical sciences in the United States. Other components include The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003 (H.R. 766), the Energy Research, Development, Demonstration, and Commercial Application Act of 2003 (H.R. 238) and the Energy and Science Research Investment Act of 2003 (S. 917 and H.R. 34). The traceability of advances in the physical sciences to economic growth, new medical technology, energy independence, and enhanced national security is strong. As you know, the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) has given high priority to strengthening the physical sciences, including nanoscale science and technology. I appreciate the Committee's leadership in this area, and I firmly believe that the future of our Nation depends on continued leadership at the scientific and technological frontier, a frontier that includes nanoscale science and technology.

*******************

Article 361

Nanotechnology

May 1 2003

Chairman Allen, Senator Wyden, members of the Committee, I am pleased and honored to have this opportunity to appear before you today in behalf of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office (NNCO) and the Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and Technology (NSET) Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC). I, and all agency representatives on the NSET Subcommittee, believe strongly in the tremendous potential and importance of nanotechnology for the security, economic prosperity, and general welfare of our nation. We also share this Committee's belief that Federal support for nanotechnology R&D is essential for efficient development of the scientific understanding, advanced facilities, education, and standards necessary for timely translation of R&D in nanotechnology into true economic development. 

As the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) has defined it, nanotechnology is the ability to work - to see, measure, and manipulate - at the atomic, molecular, and supramolecular levels, in the length scale of approximately 1-100 nm range, with the goal of understanding and creating useful materials, devices, and systems that exploit the fundamentally new properties, phenomena, and functions resulting from their small structure. So, nanotechnology is not just the study of small things. Nanoscale research and development is the study of materials, devices, and systems that exhibit physical and chemical properties quite different from those found in larger scale systems. Take the semiconductor cadmium sulfide as an example. In its large-scale form, it is typically used as a material for constructing detectors of light. But, when it is formed as small crystals of less than 10 nm - termed quantum dots - the material as a nanostructure has the property of fluorescing with a color dependent on the size of the crystal. In a demonstration accompanying this testimony, I would like to show the Committee this nanoscale size-dependent phenomenon. When illuminated with near-ultraviolet light, five vials of liquid containing cadmium sulfide quantum dots ranging in size from 3 nanometers to 7 nanometers will be shown to fluoresce with colors ranging from blue to red, the blue light being produced by the 3 nanometer quantum dots and the red light being produced by the 7 nanometer quantum dots. Such size-dependent quantum dots and nanorods promise to have a wide range of applications in improved solar cells, biological imaging of cells, and faster DNA testing.

This NSET focused definition of nanotechnology, along with the NNI vision and program elements, were carefully prescribed in the basic research directions document for the NNI, drafted in 1999. The definition, vision, and program elements have served the program as guiding principles for the NNI since that time. More than thirty other countries have also modeled their nanotechnology programs on the NNI.

As a scientist who has worked for over twenty-five years in some of the fields now included in nanotechnology, I'd now like to offer my perspective on how this technology is developing. Then, I'll describe plans for the NNCO and the interactions underway between the NNCO, the NSET Subcommittee, and the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST).

I had the privilege early in my career of observing the phenomenon of quantum mechanical tunneling between two small gold spheres spaced about one nanometer - ten atomic diameters - apart. In classical physics no current flow would occur between metals not touching. But in quantum mechanics, the electrons "tunnel" through this potential energy barrier produced by the physical gap. With a small voltage applied between the spheres, changing the spacing between them by only one atomic diameter would cause the current flow to change by a factor of ten, an extraordinarily large change. This characteristic of quantum mechanical tunneling between two closely spaced metals - known and predicted by theory - proved to be the basis for the totally unexpected discovery later by Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rhorer that by carefully moving a sharpened metal tip about one nanometer above a surface one could resolve and draw images of the individual atoms constituting the surface. For the first time in scientific history, we could virtually reach down and touch the very rudiments of all matter - the atoms! Nothing in my career has generated as much sustained excitement and stirred as much imagination and creativity as did this discovery. That was twenty years ago, and I still marvel at the beautiful and refined images of atoms obtained with this instrument, the scanning tunneling microscope.

About ten years later, Don Eigler and colleagues demonstrated that using a scanning tunneling microscope they could not only reach down and touch the atoms but, in addition, could controllably move individual atoms around on a surface and build atomic structures they designed - atomically precise letters of the alphabet and quantum corrals for electrons. There have been many other developments since then leading to the current rapid development of nanotechnology, but these two demonstrations are clearly the events that energized the scientific community to begin thinking seriously about the real possibility of atom-by- atom structuring of matter.

Parallel to these developments in the direct mechanical manipulation of atoms with the scanning tunneling microscope, similar exciting things were taking place in other fields now included in nanotechnology. The discovery of fullerene molecules - buckyballs and nanotubes - sprang from the study of small clusters of carbon; ultra miniaturization of microelectronics produced the burgeoning field of thin film superlattices and quantum dots; DNA and other biomolecules emerged from biotechnology as unique building blocks; the study of very large or supramolecules produced surprisingly efficient catalysts. This is only a small number of the fields overlapping with the field now termed nanotechnology; each has its own exciting story of discovery and rapid development over the last ten years or so.

With all these approaches and processes, just imagine the astounding number of structures one can build with the 91 atoms of the periodic table. The rich possibilities may be appreciated by considering the large number of atoms in typical nanoscale sized structures. Nanoscale structures with dimensions of 1 nanometer can contain up to about 100 atoms; those with dimensions of 2 nanometers, up to about 1000 atoms; and those with dimensions of 100 nanometers, up to about 100 million atoms. The number of possible structures within this nanoscale size range isn't infinite but it is huge. The structures that we can build will be limited more by our creativity and imagination than by the ultimate bounding of possibilities posed by the laws of physics.

So where are we in our abilities to realize all these wonderfully rich possibilities, and why is there a need for so much research and development? First, even with the rapid progress made in scanning probe techniques for assembling atoms, the first assembly of atoms involving true molecular bonding was only achieved in 2000 and that was assembling a three-atom structure. Currently, we have an inadequate degree of control at the nanoscale and our tools and processes for assembling atoms are very slow. We still do not have the understanding, the tools, and processes for the full control of assembling reasonably large numbers of atoms into desired structures. As an example, we cannot form single wall nanotubes with a known twist or chirality. This is critical because depending on the twist of the nanotubes; they may be metals or semiconductors. Speed in forming a macroscopic quantity of these nanostructures, say enough for a drug tablet, is critical because it requires assembling about a million, billion, billion, atoms! Innovative combinations of top- down tools such as lithography with methods of directed self- assembly of atoms and molecules have provided means to overcome some of the speed limitations yet with some resultant loss in ultimate control of the atomic and molecular form of the resulting structures.

This gives you a sense of the task remaining before us and the amazing potential for making new materials, devices and systems as we continue to engage the challenges.

In the Marketplace Today

Relative to the long-range potential just outlined, nanotechnology is truly in its embryonic stage of development. Yet, many important nanotechnology-based products are already in use today. Few people are aware of these first commercial nano products because they are more incremental than revolutionary.

Some applications of nanotechnology have been in use for many years, and we can now begin to appreciate their economic impact. The U.S. oil industry saves an estimated 400 million barrels of oil each year, representing some $12 billion, through the use of nanoparticles called zeolites, which act as molecular sieves. Zeolites extract up to 40 percent more gasoline from crude oil than the catalysts that were previously used. Recently, the automotive industry was able to substantially reduce the amount of precious metals used in its catalytic converters and extend the longevity of the converters, in part due to advancements in nanostructured catalysts. These examples show how significant a contribution nanotechnology can make to our economy, environment, and natural resources management.

Other nanotechnology based products that have become available over the last year or two include:

-Nanoparticle filters for removing viruses, bacteria, and protozoa such as hepatitis A, Ecoli and giardia from water

-Nanocomposites in running boards and bumpers on automobiles to decrease weight and improve corrosion resistance

-Thin layers engineered at the nanoscale to produce protective and glare-reducing coatings for eyeglasses and cars

-Transparent sunscreens with superior UV protection

-Longer-lasting tennis balls due to decreased gas permeability of nanoclay coatings

-Stain-free clothing and mattresses due to nanostructured fiber coatings In addition, exciting new applications are in the product pipeline, with patents already licensed, and partnerships sealed between product developers and manufacturers. But these near-term applications are modest in comparison to the potential applications of research now being conducted under the auspices of NNI funding. Examples include the following:

-Microcantilever arrays incorporating nanostructured coatings that will enable detection of multiple chemical warfare agents, explosive vapors, and biological agents on a single chip (A. Majumdar, U.C. Berkeley)

-Dip-pen Nanolithography: Use of atomic force microscopes as "ink pens" for use in nanolithography for low-cost, ultra high resolution chip manufacturing (C. Mirkin, Northwestern University)

-A variety of potential applications of carbon nanotubes, including electrical interconnects for nanoscale electronics, hydrogen storage, and even structural applications such as nanotube-reinforced composites (R. Smalley, Rice University)

-Digital logic and memory devices manufactured on the molecular scale from rotaxane molecules using nanowire interconnects (J. Heath, Caltech)

Novel antibiotics based on peptide nanotubes that punch holes in bacterial cell walls (A. Olson, Scripps Research Institute)

-Low-cost, ultra lightweight, and flexible nanorod-polymer photovoltaic cells (P. Alivisatos, UC Berkeley) -Metallic iron nanoparticles for low-cost, high-efficiency remediation of groundwater contaminated with heavy metals (W. Zhang, Lehigh University)

Nanotechnology is highly interdisciplinary. It is not just chemistry, molecular biology, medicine, physics, engineering, information science and metrology; it is all of these fields at once. R&D efforts, accordingly, require extraordinary coordination and cooperation within the scientific community, among Federal, state, and local agencies, and with industry. Further collaboration with industry in particular is necessary to commercialize scientific discoveries.

Technology transfer and commercialization have been key elements of the NNI plan from its inception. NSET member agencies have responded to this challenge by designing industry outreach activities into many of their funding programs within the NNI. Some examples are included below:

Several agencies (e.g., NIH, NSF and DOE for example) have put out special nano SBIR solicitations or have included language specifically encouraging nanotechnology-related SBIR proposals. NSF hosted an NNI SBIR workshop in March 2002 reporting on the results of initial FY '01 SBIR funding in nanotechnology. Six agencies (NSF, NIST, NIH, USDA, EPA, and NASA) presented information on nanotechnology-related SBIR funding activities at that workshop. In data later provided to NNCO, these agencies reported a total of over 65 nano-related SBIR awards made in fiscal year 2001, with a total funding of over $11 million. This figure is not known in fiscal years '02 and '03, but the overall NNI budget has grown dramatically since FY 2001.

While some NSET agencies are restricted from funding R&D activities in companies (SBIR excepted), other agencies do not have such restrictions. Within the NNI, agencies that primarily fund academic research are partnering with agencies that can fund industrial development to assure the timely transfer of basic research developments into industry. For example, the Department of Defense plays a key role in carrying nanotechnology innovations all the way from basic research funded at agencies such as ONR and DARPA into industrial practice. Thus, ONR was able to accelerate the application of wear-resistant nanostructured coatings developed under its basic research funding, and these coatings are now deployed in some Navy ships, reducing wear in turbine shaft bearings, in turn reducing the need for major propulsion systems overhauls, and thus reducing costs and increasing readiness of the Navy fleet. DOD research agencies frequently work with NSF and other basic research agencies to co-fund promising academic research, and DOD can pick up the results and promote the accelerated development of military applications through development work funded at major defense contractors.

The Department of Energy's Nanoscale Science Research Centers (NSRCs) are designed to be "user facilities" open to researchers from U.S. industry. Depending on intellectual property rules the industry researchers may be working under, the use of the DOE facilities may be free, or may entail the payment of a modest fee. DOE held a large meeting on Feb. 26-27, 2003, to formally initiate the NSRC program; the first annual users' meeting was held on Feb. 28. Members of Congress, nanotechnology researchers, and industrialists participated in the meeting, which was designed to highlight the opportunities that the new DOE facilities will afford to researchers from both academia and industry.

Nanoscale Science and Engineering Centers funded by NSF require industrial interest and effective plans for cooperation with industry. The focus for FY 2003 is on manufacturing processes at the nanoscale, so industrial participation is all the more important as NSF reviews the new proposals that will be submitted in response to this year's solicitation.

Industry participation is required in the NSF program entitled, "Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)." Several of the GOALI awards that were made by NSF in FY '02 were closely related to nanotechnology.

The U.S. Army's Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies at MIT reflects a partnership among MIT, the Army, and private industry. Currently active industrial partners include Dupont and Raytheon.

Similarly, the DARPA/DMEA Center for Nanoscience Innovation for Defense (University of California at Santa Barbara) maintains close industrial ties, with industry representation on the technical advisory committee and with participation by Rockwell Scientific and Motorola.

NSF's National Nanofabrication Users' Network (NNUN) provides nanofabrication and other research infrastructure at 5 universities around the country, available for use by either industrial or academic researchers. Each year industry researchers conduct hundreds of research projects that involve use of NNUN facilities. NSF plans to re-organize and roughly double the size of the NNUN program in the coming year.

The Department of Commerce has assisted the NNI in organizing workshops in Los Angeles and Houston aimed at building local and regional alliances between researchers, local businesses, and entrepreneurs and investors to promote the commercial development of nanotechnology. Additional workshops are planned in the coming year for the Boston and Chicago areas. Reports from these and many other nanotechnology-related workshops are available at http://wtec.org/nanoreports/ .

NSF held a special workshop for public and industry outreach at the Reagan Bldg. in Washington, DC on March 19, 2002. Entitled, "Small Wonders: Exploring the Vast Potential of Nanoscience," the meeting featured presentations on promising applications of nanotechnology in a wide variety of economic sectors, including materials, medicine, instrumentation, and electronics. Industrial participation included representatives from IBM, Lucent, Eastman Kodak, the Semiconductor Research Corporation, Motorola, the California Molecular Electronics Corporation, and Digital Instruments.

For the past two years running, the NNI has co-sponsored a large annual NNI meeting at which representatives of NSET agencies have explained the NNI programs, and at which leading NNI-supported researchers present their most promising findings. There has been significant industry participation in these meetings, which have provided yet another forum for building connections between researchers and industrial practitioners.

NNCO is now planning a workshop to enhance coordination between Federal NNI and state and regional nano initiatives that target economic development and commercialization. Key objective of this workshop are to find ways to better promote economic development through commercialization of nanotechnology breakthroughs, and to leverage the expertise and resources of existing state and local nanotechnology efforts. Another objective is to assure the broadest possible geographical distribution of the benefits of nanotechnology development -- the meeting will feature presentations from states that have established nanotechnology initiatives for the benefit of states and local governments that are hoping to establish such programs in the future. We have been working closely with Dr. Nathan Swami of the Virginia Nanotechnology Initiative, Sean Murdoch of Atomworks, and Mark Modzelewski of the Nanobusiness Alliance to plan and carry out this activity.

Industry leaders are participating in a series of workshops being organized this year by the NNCO to help establish detailed research plans corresponding to the NNI's nine grand challenge topics. One example is a workshop held in September of 2002 entitled, "Vision 2020 for the Chemical Industry." A chemical industry group manages the Vision 2020 exercise in cooperation with the DOE/Office of Industrial Technologies. This workshop was particularly targeted at identifying nanotechnology research opportunities that would benefit the chemical industry. Not all of the grand challenge workshops planned for the coming year will be industry-led in the way Vision 2020 was, but all will include representation from key companies in the relevant industries affected by the respective grand challenge topics.

A new research and education theme on "manufacturing at the nanoscale" has been added to the NSF's Nanoscale Science and Engineering (NSE) program solicitation in fiscal year 2002, and the program element "Nanomanufacturing" has been established in the Directorate for Engineering. NSF invested about $22 million in manufacturing research and education in fiscal year 2002, and two Nanoscale Science and Engineering centers with a focus on nanoscale manufacturing will be funded in fiscal year 2003. Also, SBIR nanotechnology investment has reached $10 million in fiscal year 2002.

Because of the complexity, cost and high risk associated with nanotechnology research, the private sector is often unable to assure itself of short- to medium-term returns on R&D investments in this field. Consequently, industry is not likely to undertake the basic research investments necessary to overcome the technical barriers that currently exist. The traditional government role of supporting basic research is thus particularly important in this case. Additional basic research will be needed to make these innovations ready for industry to develop and market.

The National Nanotechnology Initiative

The National Nanotechnology Initiative is a critical link between high-risk, novel research concepts and new technologies that can be developed by industry. Since the creation of the NNI in October 2000, Federal funding for nanotechnology has been coordinated through the NNI. The NNI has continued to the present time as a successful interagency program that encompasses and promotes relevant nanotechnology R&D among the participating Federal agencies. The Federal agencies currently participating in the NNI research budget are as follows: -National Science Foundation -Department of Defense -Department of Energy -National Institutes of Health -Department of Commerce -National Aeronautics and Space Administration -Department of Agriculture - Environmental Protection Agency -Department of Homeland Security -Department of Justice

Funding for the NNI provides support for a range of activities, which include: basic research on fundamental nanoscale science; focused efforts aimed to achieve major, long-term objectives of high significance--so-called "grand challenges;" and building research infrastructure (instrumentation, equipment, facilities) and centers and networks of excellence (larger, centralized facilities intended to provide sites for cooperative and collaborative efforts among distributed networks and groups of researchers at multiple affiliated institutions). Depending on the agency, funding supports research and applications of nanotechnology in support of the respective agency missions, research at national laboratories, and research at academic institutions and other research institutes. A portion of the funding is also dedicated to addressing non-technical research problems in a broader context, including societal implications and workforce and training issues.

The NNI has benefited and grown under this Administration's strong commitment to furthering nanotechnology research and development. Support for the NNI is evidenced by significant funding increases for this interagency initiative in each of President Bush's proposed budgets. That trend continues this year, with a 10% increase over last year's request for nanotechnology (to $849 million) in the President's FY 2004 Budget. In addition, last year the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and OSTP Director Marburger issued a memo to the heads of executive departments and agencies identifying nanoscale science and technology as one of six interagency research and development priorities. Nanoscale Science and Engineering Technology Subcommittee

The research agenda for the ten agencies currently participating in the NNI is coordinated by the NSET Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC). As you know, the NSTC is a cabinet-level interagency body through which interagency science and technology issues are discussed and coordinated. The NSET Subcommittee is staffed by representatives of the participating agencies, OSTP, and OMB. It also includes other Federal agencies that do not fund nanotechnology R&D but nevertheless have an interest in these technologies--agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration and the Department of the Treasury. There are now 17 agencies participating in the NSET Subcommittee. NSET members meet on a monthly basis to measure progress, set priorities, keep abreast of nanotechnology R&D being proposed and conducted in the agencies, plan and organize workshops, and plan for the coming year. The agency representatives to the NSET, typically program officers, and researchers, have extensive knowledge of and experience with nanoscale R&D. This expertise has been of critical importance to the success of the initiative, providing a necessary link to nanotechnology researchers in industry and academia.

Because the cost of nanotechnology instrumentation, equipment and facilities is rather high, government funding of such research infrastructure can provide a great benefit to both academic and industrial research. An important focus of the NNI, for instance, is to develop measurements and standards, research instrumentation, modeling and simulation capabilities, and R&D user facilities. Current examples of how this type of funding is used are the National Nanofabrication Users Network (NNUN), the modeling and simulation Network for Computational Nanotechnology sponsored by NSF, and a group of five user-facility Nanoscale Science Research Centers being created by DOE.

The need for this type of infrastructure is so great that Federal agencies are committing additional resources to support the NNI's efforts. These include a dedicated nanoscience facility at the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) and portions of the new Advanced Measurement Laboratory at the NIST.

The National Nanotechnology Coordination Office

The National Nanotechnology Coordination Office (NNCO) assists NSET-participating agencies by: (1) serving as secretariat to the NSET Subcommittee, providing technical and administrative support, (2) supporting the NSET Subcommittee in the preparation of multi-agency planning, budget, and assessment documents, (3) acting as the point of contact on Federal Nanotechnology activities for government organizations, academia, industry, professional societies, foreign organizations, and others for technical and programmatic information, and (4) developing and making available printed and other communications materials concerning the National Nanotechnology Initiative including maintaining a Web site for the Initiative. As part of this support, the NNCO produces annual supplements to the President's Budget explaining the NNI portion of the budget request. It also coordinates and assists in the conduct of regular workshops based on grand challenge areas. The NNCO assists and coordinates the conduct of regional workshops that explore commercialization opportunities for nanotechnology discoveries. These conferences bring together scientists, entrepreneurs, venture capitalists and large businesses for discussion and exploration of partnerships. Reports produced by the NNCO provide a permanent record of conference proceedings and are used by those not in attendance to learn more about developments in the field. Under the auspices of the NSTC, the NNCO also contracts for periodic program reviews to provide feedback on the NNI.

The annual budget of the NNCO is approximately $1 million. Three years ago, the NSET subcommittee and NNCO coordinated the efforts of six agencies involved in nanotechnology R&D. Today, through the NNI, the NSET and NNCO coordinate the efforts of 17 participating agencies. The scale of the workload for the NNCO parallels this increase in participating agencies. The NNCO staff is coordinating an increasing stream of workshops proposed by the agencies, and prepares the post-conference reports. Planning and administrative functions have expanded, as will reporting requirements resulting from the pending legislation.

With an increased number of discoveries and acceleration of commercialization activities here and abroad, staff tracking and reporting to the scientific community and government agencies must keep pace. Increased activity at the state and regional levels has brought welcome support for commercialization and another level of involvement for the NNCO.

Current high-priority NNCO projects include the following:

a) NNCO is working with OSTP and OMB to finalize a supplement to the President's FY 2004 Budget to explain the NNI activities within the request. b) NNCO will follow this with a more detailed report this year, the revised Implementation Plan for the NNI. This will be an update of a similar detailed plan that was submitted in July of 2000. c) An interagency workshop being led by the Environmental Protection Agency will address environmental implications as well as applications of nanotechnology. The purpose of this September workshop is to define the future research agenda for EPA and other agencies in the NNI that support nanotechnology research aimed to enhance environmental quality through pollution detection, prevention, treatment, and remediation. d) The National Institutes of Health is taking the lead in organizing a workshop to explore opportunities for supporting more research at the intersection of nanotechnology and biology, as recommended in the NRC report. This is tentatively scheduled for October. e) Another workshop scheduled for September will facilitate collaboration and best practices among state and regional initiatives. f) NNI and the Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC) are organizing a workshop this Fall on nanoelectronics. g) A workshop is tentatively scheduled for this December to assess broader societal implications, including ethical, economic, education/workforce, medical, and national security implications. This is follow-on to a workshop held in September 2000 on these same subjects. h) A project is underway to produce a brochure for industry, explaining the state of nanotechnology, R&D opportunities and resources toward commercialization of nanotechnology discoveries. i) Following from all the above activities, NNCO will be coordinating a large workshop in early 2004 to integrate inputs from all the grand challenge workshops, PCAST suggestions, new legislation, and recommendations of the NRC report and produce a new "crisp, compelling plan" for the NNI. This will be a reprise and 5-year update of the January 1999 workshop that produced the first detailed technical plan, the report entitled, Nanotechnology Research Directions.

Recognizing the growing complexity of this multi-agency effort, OSTP asked me to begin serving on April 15 of this year as the full-time Director of NNCO. (In the past, Dr. James Murday had served as the Director of the NNCO in a half-time capacity.) Among my specific charges are increasing communications between the OSTP, NNCO and the NSET; promoting a higher level of coordination of nanotechnology R&D among the Departments and agencies participating in the NSET; and providing an increased level of support for the NSET Subcommittee in preparation of planning, budgeting, and assessment documents. Recognizing the increasing need for public outreach for greater understanding of nanotechnology and its societal implications, the NNCO has hired a full-time communications director and will be undertaking an array of communication tasks, including enhancing the NNI Web Site.

NSET and NNCO Interactions with PCAST

Relevant to the legislation before the committee is the report of the National Research Council (NRC) following their study of the NNI. Entitled Small Wonders, Endless Frontiers: A Review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative, the report, published in the summer of 2002, highlighted the strong leadership of the NNI, praised the degree of interagency collaboration, and lauded the early successes of the research programs.

As you know, the National Research Council (NRC) recommended that the federal nanotechnology research program would benefit from an outside review. As noted in the President's FY 04 Budget, the Administration concurs that an independent review is warranted, and has asked the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) to undertake this effort.

PCAST has already begun its work in this regard, and the NNCO staff is excited to be working with the PCAST membership on this task. PCAST is well suited to conduct this review, as its members have extensive experience and expertise in technological developments, how Federal R&D programs operate, and how R&D effectively translates to the economy. This type of broad experience offer perspectives on how nanotechnology can address key issues facing industries today (e.g., the "red brick wall" referred to in the recent "International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors" report).

The preliminary PCAST work plan for its role in advising the NNI, approved at the March 3 PCAST meeting, sets out as one of its first tasks the review and assessment of the NNI's "grand challenges" -- the nine areas where nanotechnology can make significant contributions to national goals and priorities outlined in the current NNI program plan. The industrial backgrounds of many PCAST members are particularly appropriate to this role, providing a broader perspective beyond laboratory research.

PCAST also offers the benefits of timeliness and effectiveness. PCAST already exists, and has already begun its nanotechnology work with the intent on providing some recommendations by late summer, in time for the FY05 budget process. Importantly, too, PCAST is an established and well-regarded entity within the Administration. Its advice will be well-received.

The PCAST review of the NNI will be an ongoing project that provides continuing recommendations to the President on how to improve the program. PCAST will work in coordination with the National Science and Technology Council, as well as the NNCO. PCAST's initial effort will be assisting in the development of a crisp, compelling and overarching strategic plan, and refining the list of specific "grand challenge" topics to guide the NNI program. NSET and NNCO are working with OSTP already in organizing a series of workshops aimed at setting specific objectives within those grand challenge topics and clarifying the research agendas for NSET member agencies that will lead to the achievement of those objectives. PCAST then intends to explore additional issues, such as program metrics, and also to monitor the response to the guidance it provides.

To assist in these activities, PCAST has formed three internal task forces - one on materials, electronics and photonics, one on energy and the environment, and one on medical, bio and social issues. In addition, PCAST is forming an external technical task force to gain input on technical nanotechnology issues as may be needed. Additional consultations will naturally occur as well. At its March 3rd meeting, for example, PCAST met with three leading nanotechnology scientists - Richard Smalley, Richard Siegel, and Samuel Stupp (who led the NRC review). PCAST co-Chair Floyd Kvamme also met with the NSET members at NSETs last meeting in early April and I, as the new NNCO coordinator, have already met with Mr. Kvamme as well.

The NNCO is pleased to have PCAST's experience available for counsel, and looks forward to working with PCAST in the months and years to come.

In another structural change, the OSTP has proposed that the NSET Subcommittee be re-constituted with higher level agency membership to enable enhanced coordination and priority setting. We at the NNCO recognize the importance of high-level agency involvement in the NNI. For the active support of planning and conducting workshops and generally tracking technological innovations, we will rely on the current membership of the NSET, which under the OSTP plan would be re-formulated as an interagency working group. The members' extensive knowledge of and experience with nanoscale R&D has been and will continue to be of critical importance to the success of the initiative, providing a necessary link to nanotechnology researchers in industry and academia.

Summary and Final Comments

In summary, nanotechnology is still at a very early stage of development, and there are many challenges and opportunities before us. The NNI has for almost five years now served as a very effective means for coordinating Federally funded activities in nanotechnology. As this initiative matures and grows in scope and scale, the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office is also scaling up to meet the additional responsibilities that this entails. We greatly appreciate the endorsement of the NNI's achievements and future potential implicit in the language of the proposed 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act.

Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee, thank you again for your support. The NSET, NNCO staff and I look forward to continuing to work with you and your staff to refine and improve the program and the legislation currently under consideration.


*******************

Article 362

Nanotechnology

May 1 2003

Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of this distinguished committee for allowing me to address you on S.189. I am Jim Von Ehr, Chief Executive Officer of Zyvex Corporation. I started Zyvex to develop molecular nanotechnology and revolutionize how we make physical goods. Today, we offer the promises of nanotechnology to our nation through tools, materials, and nanomanufacturing. As the founder of one of the first nanotechnology businesses, I am honored to share my unique perspective.

First, I commend you for your leadership on this important legislation. It is leaders like United States Senator George Allen who make a difference by taking the time to really understand the issues and ensure the success of our nation by meeting with and listening to leading nanotechnology small businesses. 

Senator Allen, and other members of this committee know that we are at a pivotal moment that will decide whether thirty years from now, it will be the United States or another country that will be a world leader in science, manufacturing, and technology. S.189 shows that our nation's leaders understand the benefits of nanotechnology and the need to educate more scientists and engineers. However, it is also vital that we more effectively commercialize university research. International competitors are aggressively developing their own nanotechnology industry, quite often based on discoveries first made in our own university labs here in the United States. We want a healthy manufacturing sector in the United States to assure good jobs for these newly educated technologists.

Thanks to my previous, significant business success, I've been able to generously fund Zyvex myself. Today, we employ over 50 people and are one of the few nanotechnology companies with revenue. I've also given nearly $4M of my own money to a number of universities to help them enter this field. With this experience, I feel entitled to comment on technology transfer and commercialization--the two most important aspects of this legislation.

As my friend, Nobel Laureate, Professor Rick Smalley says, "Nanotechnology is the art and science of building stuff that does stuff on the nanometer scale. The ultimate nanotechnology builds at the ultimate level of finesse--one atom at a time--and does it with molecular perfection." I started Zyvex seven years ago to commercialize that level of control and perfection.

The current Bill calls for an Advisory Panel staffed by academic and government scientists. The voice of business is missing, and I'm concerned about that. As you know, our nation's record of commercializing research from universities and government labs is good in the biosciences, but disappointing in most other areas.

The National Nanotechnology Initiative is inspiring competitive programs worldwide. The societal benefits of the NNI will come in the form of products. The role of business is to develop and sell products in a capital-efficient manner. We must have a business focus to ensure that the research we develop is commercialized in the United States. Therefore, I strongly recommend that representatives from both large and small businesses be included on the Advisory Panel. COMPETITION Competition is a key reason U.S. business is the most competitive in the world. Competition is also important to science. Peer review is a powerful approach to filtering out junk science, but it also can filter out novel ideas from young researchers. We need ways to differentiate scientifically crazy ideas like building time machines from delightfully wild ideas like sequencing the human genome in three years. Of course, when Craig Venter decided that such a sequencing timetable was achievable, it probably would not have passed muster with a conservative peer review committee. He properly framed the issue as a business problem--not a scientific problem--and solved it.

Our most competitive industries are also our least regulated-- semiconductors, personal computers, software, and the Internet, to name just a few. S.189 has a light regulatory touch, and I urge you to follow the example of the Internet, and avoid premature regulation while the industry develops. There will be pressures from the usual anti-technology voices to ban or limit nanotechnology, but we should continue on the path of progress that has always been our nation's strength.

We also need to inject private sector competition into our nanotechnology program. The current Bill calls for significant funding for government labs to build new user facilities. Providing shared access to exotic equipment is a smart way to stretch funds and accelerate overall development. These facilities will not be available for at least five years. This is too long to wait in this dynamic field. Awarding competitive contracts or grants to the private sector to upgrade and reopen surplus or shuttered facilities could achieve faster deployment at a lower cost. BARRIERS TO INDUSTRY Applied Research

While fundamental long-term research is a vital component of this legislation, nowhere is there a mention of the importance of funding applied research. I urge this committee to consider this issue very carefully. Without a commercialization focus, other nations may surpass us and become a dominant force in the global economy. Specific technology, such as a molecularly precise nanomanufacturing system, in the hands of another nation would be disastrous from the standpoint of national defense and economic competitiveness.

Technology Transfer

The technology transfer programs at our nation's leading universities have produced dismal results. The barriers for small and large industry to commercialize this "long-term" research performed under federal dollars have brought very little economic benefit to the American Public. Stan Williams of Hewlett Packard has addressed this issue in previous testimony, so I won't belabor the point.

Funding

I used to oppose any government funding for any industry. The private sector is the most efficient way to make investment decisions. However, our private sector has gone global and can invest anywhere. The short-term economic decisions that make sense for a particular company might not be the best long-term decisions for our country. Perhaps it is reasonable for the government to encourage economic competitiveness for national security reasons. While I worry about the "industrial policy" implications, I worry even more about losing nanotechnology to nations able to invest for periods longer than two to three years. Nothing makes this point clearer to me than a recent trip to Taiwan where I witnessed, ITRI, a government/industry partnership staffed with 6,000 researchers developing an advanced technology base and focused on industrial competitiveness.

Funding is vital for any enterprise. Private equity funding today is short-term oriented. Taking research from the lab into the marketplace is a long-term endeavor. The gap between lab and market leads to the "valley of death" funding crisis--it is rare to find investors willing to take the risk of an investment lasting five years or more.

Today, it is more difficult for small technology businesses to secure acceptable funding. Small businesses employ 39% of high tech workers and are responsible for 45% of the jobs in our nation. Small business produce 13-14 times more patents per employee than large firms. These patents are also twice as likely to be among the 1% most cited.1

The Commerce Department has the NIST Advanced Technology Program, which has been instrumental to Zyvex in overcoming this funding gap. It helps fund high-risk, high-reward projects, evaluating commercialization plans as a venture capitalist would. The NIST- ATP program requires, in many cases, including ours, cost sharing by the company. The ATP helps put small companies on a more even research and development footing with large companies. The program wisely recognizes that small businesses are unable to afford the kind of R&D of an IBM or Lucent, yet are responsible for a majority of our nation's innovations and technical advancements.

Thanks to our ATP, we will have hired fifteen new employees in 2003; we also support researchers at two universities in Texas and one university in New York. We are developing a new manufacturing technology that will drive innovation in the silicon micromachine domain. The impact of parallel microassembly on the broader economy will be in the billions of dollars and will ultimately create thousands of jobs here in America.

We should consider a nanotechnology initiative with a greater balance between university long-term fundamental research and applied research and industrial development. The Advanced Technology Program should take on a larger role, similar to the role of the NSF. It could be elevated to an office within the Technology Administration in the Commerce Department. Outside venture capitalists with a longer-term viewpoint would help review competitive business plans. The program would focus on commercializing nanotechnology research. More nanotechnology dollars should be allocated to flow through the SBIR program, which will also help accelerate the innovation and commercialization of nanotechnology. COMPONENTS TO OUR SUCCESS AS A NATION Society

Studying the impact nanotechnology may have on the world is vital, and S.189 addresses this issue head-on. Those of us in the field believe that we will be able to manufacture products in a clean, environmentally sound manner, and welcome qualified people to review our technology.

Three years ago, I founded the Texas Nanotechnology Initiative, a non-profit organization whose goal is to establish Texas as a world leader in the discoveries, development, and commercialization of nanotechnology. TNI has become a model for the NanoBusiness Alliance and other regional initiatives. We want to develop a nanotechnology cluster as an economic engine for the region. Good jobs are at stake here. While TNI is working to assure many of them are in Texas, it is our duty as Americans to do all we can to assure that they are in the United States. High tech private sector jobs benefit the economy, with a return of $3.32 for every dollar invested in research. 2 Funding and support for these statewide initiatives needs to be addressed in the Bill. GRAND CHALLENGE You already know that we have a problem in the number of Americans pursuing study in science and engineering. To turn this around, we need to get government, universities, and industry to work in partnership to achieve the great promises of nanotechnology. This would be a grand challenge similar to the "man on the moon" challenge. The National Nanotechnology Initiative defines nine "grand challenges," but it is difficult to focus on nine things with undefined outcomes. What if we had one or two grand challenges? And what if these grand challenges were to solve serious problems for our nation? Such as how we reduce our dependence on imported energy. Or how the United States can regain our position as the world leader in manufacturing. Nanomanufacturing could be part of the solution to both of these problems. Energy

With a major nanoenergy program--on the order of ten to twenty billion per year--we could reduce our dependence on fossil fuel by 50% over the next fifteen to twenty years. That would pay benefits of several hundred billion per year. It is hard to calculate the security benefits of being less dependent on energy imports. The nanotechnology that would come out of this program would provide multiples of that benefit in all the other areas identified as priorities.3

Nanomanufacturing

Nanotechnology isn't just about making small "stuff," but includes interfacing that "stuff" to the real world. We must be able to manufacture with molecular precision at all length scales- -from molecular to the size of a jumbo jet. A nanomanufacturing program would be complementary to the energy program, and would also result in technologies that could be applied to materials, medicine, and computing.

Conclusion

Much vision and foresight is at the core of this legislation. To truly ensure the success of our great nation, we must now have the courage and perseverance to take such visionary steps. Long- term fundamental research alone will not guarantee commercialization of nanotechnology. It requires a balance of applied and fundamental research, support for our regional initiatives, a constant voice from industry, and a competitive process for awarding federal dollars.

I once again applaud your vision and foresight to ensure that the United States is the nation that brings this powerful technology to the world. The legacy you leave now will be remembered by all our future generations.

Mr. Chairman and members of this committee--thank you for your time and for this honor.



*******************

Article 363

Nanotechnology

May 1 2003

I wish to thank the Committee for inviting me to testify about the need for research on the social and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology. At the University of South Carolina I am leading a broadly interdisciplinary team of researchers working in cooperation with the USC NanoCenter. Our mission is to examine the societal implications of nanotechnology. It is a topic I feel strongly about, and I am happy to speak to you about it.

My primary point: It is essential that research into the societal and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology be undertaken. 

It is essential because nanotechnology presents itself as a transformative discipline. Consider the words of the 2002 NNI report: "The impact of nanotechnology on the health, wealth, and lives of people could be at least as significant as the combined influences of microelectronics, medical imaging, computer-aided engineering, and man-made polymers developed in the century just past." We would be foolish not to investigate human implications of such a fundamental technology.

Research into societal and ethical implications is essential also because of the--nano--size we are dealing with. Immediately privacy issues come to mind. There also are important concerns about toxicity, about environmental uses and abuses of nanotechnology. Possible military uses of nanotechnology raise additional concerns.

Beyond concerns about specific nanosize products, we also need to think carefully about how nanotechnology is framed. Ray Kurzweil, in testimony to the House on their version of the bill you are considering, speaks of conquering aging. Were we to do so, it would be a societal nuclear bomb. We need to think this through!

Ideas about nanotechnology come to the public through two main avenues, science fiction--Michael Crichton's Prey, for instance-- and "science faction" (meaning more than fiction, less than fact)--for instance, Bill Joy's "Why the Future Doesn't Need Us." If we are not careful we'll have a real political football on our hands. Already resistance is building.

For all these reasons, and others as well, it is imperative that we undertake research on the societal and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology.

Targeted Funding Necessary: Funds for research on the societal and ethical implications of nanotechnology need to be targeted to those with the expertise, training and interest to focus on these issues. If they are not, the funds will be gobbled up by hungry scientists and engineers. This much has been said by the National Research Council's 2002 review of the NNI.

Center for Research Necessary: In order for the promise of the work on the societal and ethical implications of nanotechnology to have a significant impact, the work needs to be concentrated in one--or preferably more--centers. There are numerous science and technology centers, a veritable juggernaut. Such centralization is needed for the societal and ethical voice to be heard above the roar of the scientific and technological excitement. In addition, a center can help to coordinate and assess the various approaches to these problems that we attempt. Section 4, C, 5 of the bill you are considering, S. 189, is important.

Interdisciplinary Approach Necessary: This research must be done in a broadly interdisciplinary way. We need to draw on the full spectrum of voices--the humanities, arts, social sciences, the legal and medical professions, and the scientists and engineers. Productive work on societal implications needs to be engaged with the research from the start. Ethicists need to go into the lab to understand what's possible. Scientists and engineers need to engage with humanists to start thinking about this aspect of their work. Students need training now that will take their understanding of nanotechnology from laboratory to society. These students today, trained in the right interdisciplinary setting, will become a cadre of scientists, engineers and scholars used to working together, thinking about the societal and technical problems side-by-side. Only thus, working together in dialog, will we make genuine progress on the societal and ethical issues that nanotechnology poses.

We have a real opportunity here. Instead of calling on ethicists to patch things up as best as they can after the fact, if we start now, bringing social scientists and humanists to the table, our understanding of the social and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology can co-evolve with the technology itself. This will make for better, more socially responsive work in nanotechnology, and for fewer problems to patch up later. Nanotechnology can avoid the fate most recently of genetically modified organisms.

Thank you for considering my testimony. In my written comments I map out in somewhat more detail the kind of interactive interdisciplinary model that we are building here at USC. I should note similar work being done at the University of Virginia. But there is a big country and lots to do. I welcome any questions you may have.

Written Testimony

I wish to thank the Committee for inviting me to testify about the need for research on the social and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology. At the University of South Carolina I am leading a broadly interdisciplinary team of researchers working in cooperation with the USC NanoCenter. Our mission is to examine the societal implications of nanotechnology. It is a topic I feel strongly about, and I am happy to speak to you about it.

I have one primary point, and three follow-up clarifications.

Primary point: It is essential that research into the societal and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology be undertaken.

Targeted Funding Necessary: Adequate funding for this research must be specifically targeted for investigating nanotechnology's societal and ethical dimensions.

Center for Research Necessary: It would be more productive for some of the research to be concentrated in one--or preferably more--centers.

Interdisciplinary Approach Necessary: This research should be conducted in a broadly interdisciplinary way that includes humanists, social scientists legal and medical professionals and nano scientists and engineers.

Primary point: Research into the societal and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology is essential for many reasons: (1) Nanotechnology presents itself as a fundamentally transformative technology, with changes promised in nearly every important sector of human endeavor. According to the 2002 report of the National Nanotechnology Initiative: "The impact of nanotechnology on the health, wealth, and lives of people could be at least as significant as the combined influences of microelectronics, medical imaging, computer-aided engineering, and man-made polymers developed in the century just past." We would be very foolish not to research carefully the potential societal and ethical consequences of nanotechnology. (2) In virtue of its defining characteristic--nano size--nanotechnology immediately raises several social and ethical concerns. Privacy comes quickly to mind, but also the human and environmental toxicity of manufactured nanoparticles. Nanotechnology will be important for other environmental issues including waste disposal and the remediation of natural sites. Potential military uses of nanotechnology raise concerns. (3) Beyond concerns about such concrete products of nanotechnology, we need to consider how the goals of different segments of society for the use of nanotechnology are framed. In oral testimony to the House of Representatives Ray Kurzweil said, "Nanotechnology and related advanced technologies of the 2020s will bring us the opportunity to overcome age-old problems, including pollution, poverty, disease, and aging." Problem or not, "overcoming" aging would be a societal nuclear bomb. Such goals need careful reflection, not "damn the torpedoes, full steam ahead" technical pursuit. (4) Information about nanotechnology is coming to the public through two main avenues science fiction--Michael Crichton's Prey- -and, what I call "science faction" (more than fiction, less than fact)--Bill Joy's "The Future Doesn't Need Us." Without some serious reflection on the genuine opportunities and risks posed by nanotechnology, this field could very easily become a political football. Already one can see resistance building in, for example, the efforts of the ETC group. For all these reasons, and others as well, it is imperative that we undertake research on the societal and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology.

Targeted Funding Necessary: Funding for this research needs to be specifically targeted to societal and ethical work. When this doesn't happen hungry scientists and engineers--reasonably and appropriately enough--gobble up all the funds. They may add some words to a largely scientific or engineering grant application that suggest an interest in societal implications, but if the work is not organized and led by those for whom societal and ethical concerns are the focus, the words will only be window dressing. This much has been reported in the National Research Council's 2002 review of the NNI. Philosophers, ethicists and social scientists are trained--variously in different ways--to think through ethical and social issues. Furthermore, they are well situated to mediate between the scientists and engineers working on nanotechnology and the broader public.

Center for Research Necessary: In order for research on the societal and ethical implications of nanotechnology to have significant impact, some of this research needs to be concentrated in a center--or better several centers. Already there are numerous well-funded state and university centers for the pursuit of the scientific and technical challenges posed by the nanoscale. NSF has funded six nanoscale science and engineering centers [NSECs]. Similar centers have been funded by NASA, DOE and DOD. There is a scientific and engineering juggernaut here, and some concentration will be necessary for the societal and ethical dimensions voice to be heard. Section 4, C 5 of the bill you are considering, S. 189, is important.

Interdisciplinary Approach Necessary: Investigations into the ethical and societal implications of nanotechnology must be done in an interdisciplinary collaborative way, drawing into dialog the full spectrum of perspectives on this work--the humanities, arts, social sciences, the professions and, of course, the various scientific and engineering disciplines that are jointly pursuing nanoscale research. Productive and useful social and ethical considerations of nanotechnology cannot occur outside the research and development itself. We will be much better off integrating such concerns into the research from the ground up. To do this we need to establish channels of communication between and among the various stakeholders in nanotechnology. We need to bring humanists and social scientists into the lab so they can begin to grasp what is genuinely possible at the nanoscale, and then it will be possible for the scientists and engineers to hear and to begin to engage social and ethical concerns. Students, who will be developing the nanotechnology for the next generation need to be broadly educated now in the whole picture of nanotechnology, laboratory to society. None of these groups has a monopoly on what is right and true, and only through careful open dialog can we hope to make meaningful progress reconciling different viewpoints and building societal and ethical concerns in at the beginning.

Let me close by saying we have a real positive opportunity here. In contrast to the typical case where ethical and social consequences are dealt with after the fact, patching up problems as best as we can, in this case research into the social and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology can co-evolve with the technology itself. This will make for better, more socially responsive work in nanotechnology and for fewer problems to patch up. Nanotechnology can avoid the fate of genetically modified organisms.

Thank you for considering my testimony. In my written comments I sketch out in somewhat more detail the kind of interactive interdisciplinary model I have in mind. I would be happy to entertain any questions you may have.


*******************

Article 364

ALLEN: Good afternoon to you all. And today the Commerce Committee will examine S189, the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act. Senator Wyden, my good friend and counterpart, and key leader and friend on the (inaudible) Nanotechnology will be here shortly, and he'll have some opening remarks, as well.

We're going to look today in this hearing, in both panels, at the progress of the National Nanotechnology Initiative and the issues surrounding the transfer of basic nanotechnology research out of government and university labs into the private sector for commercial applications. 

And I do want to especially thank my colleague and friend, Senator Wyden, on this issue. Last September, Senator Wyden and I held the first congressional hearing ever on the topic of nanotechnology. And at that time, many of our colleagues thought nanotechnology was too -- too small of an issue to be concerned about, to focus on. However, as elected leaders, I'm convinced that we need to focus and recognize that this industry is really at the very verge of a tremendous revolution.

There are companies in the private sector, like Hewlett Packard, General Motors, IBM, General Electric, Siemen's, Intel and Dow, all involved in nanotechnology research and development.

Furthermore, I think that we ought to recognize that we are not alone in this country being interested in nanotechnology. Indeed, when one will look at the global picture, we are falling a bit behind insofar as our research and development in nanotechnology. And we're facing some stiff foreign competition within nanotech research from Japan, the European Union, Russia, Korea and China.

Now this nation, the United States, has been at the forefront of almost every important transformative technology since the industrial revolution and we must continue to lead the world in the nanotechnology revolution, in my estimation.

Now our role, as elected leaders, should be to create or to foster the conditions precedent for our researchers and innovators to compete and contribute and succeed, both domestically and internationally. I am not here to say that we ought to guarantee anyone success, but the government's role is to -- to make sure the field is fertile, our tax policies, our research policies, our regulatory policies allow the creative minds in the private sector, in our colleges and universities, as well as in some of our federal government agencies, to -- to reach their full potential.

And that's really why Senator Wyden and I introduced S. 189, to provide an organized and collaborative way and approach to nanotechnology research and commercial economic development. Our strategic goal is logical and very clear. We want to leverage the government, academic and corporate research capabilities and assets this country has available, currently available, and allow our whole country and those involved in it to compete and succeed worldwide.

Now the ground-breaking nanotech projects today will mean substantial regional and national job growth in the future. Our legislation authorizes $678 million for grants to support basic fundamental research and development and establish research centers of excellence that will bring together experts from the various disciplines, agencies and private sectors, as well as universities. This legislation also leverages and recognizes the -- the work taking place at the state-led initiatives, like the ones in Virginia, Oregon, Texas, California, Pennsylvania and New York.

I'm especially pleased by the Bush administrative good timing, especially pleased by the Bush administration's focus and support for nanotech. The president requested $849 million for nanotechnology, which is a 10 percent increase over last year's request. If Congress approves this requested increase, the funding for the National Nanotechnology Initiative will have doubled since FY or fiscal year 2001.

Now this morning -- or excuse me, this afternoon -- we'll be hearing from an eminently qualified panel, two panels, to discuss this measure, Senate bill 189, as well technology transfer and the progress of nanotech research and development in the United States. I want to welcome all of our witnesses for being with us. Thank you for your willingness to be here, some from clear across the country and half- way across the country, and some from right around here in this region. But thank you for your willingness to testify before this committee on this very important subject for our future.

I will introduce each of you all in the panels as we proceed, but before I do that, I would like to ask my colleague, who's been a real partner a team mate in this effort in nanotechnologies, Senator Wyden, if he has any opening remarks he would -- may wish to make.

WYDEN: Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's great to team up with you and suffice it to say we are going to be busy on the technology -- technology front over the next few months, Internet taxes and our legislation to ensure that the net does not get barraged with a whole new array of taxes will be coming up shortly. And of course, today we're focusing on special priority you and I have had for a number of years. So I -- I'm really pleased that the Oregon- Virginia tech alliance is alive and prospering. And I thank you for it.

I would ask you now, Mr. Chairman, that my statement could be made a part of the record and maybe I could just highlight a couple of -- a couple of my -- my concerns. Suffice it to say a lot of Americans still think that nanotechnology is the stuff of science fiction or that it is certainly a fairly exotic discipline with widespread application far off in the future.

And I was just home last week in Oregon and met with a whole host of Oregon companies and academic leaders and scientists that certainly made it clear that practical applications of nanotechnology are available today. Nano-scale and micro-scale technology, from computer printers to computer inks, have in fact already been created by companies in my home state. Companies in Oregon are fusing together the sciences of nanotechnology and microtechnology, which works on a slightly larger scale, and creating a variety of new innovations.

The collaborative effort between Oregon's universities and technology companies, called micro to nano, tends to go even further, using nanotechnology to create biosensors, reactors, energy sources, medical devices and the next generation of semiconductors.

WYDEN: What our legislation, of course, does as Chairman Allen has touched on, is provide critically needed funding, not just for Oregon and Virginia, that have been leaders in the field, but for programs across the country.

I also think that the last major explosion of technology, information technology, offers a clear and positive precedent for the use of discipline-specific expert advisory panels, as opposed to the use of more general, less knowledgeable counselors. And I bring this up only by way of saying that I know that we're going to have some debate with respect to the advisory counsel and who should handle this. Chairman Allen's been very reasonable in this, and suffice it to say that probably out in the real world nobody gets completely consumed by these kinds of questions.

The National Research Council in this book, an excellent book, "Small Wonders: Endless Frontiers," stresses how important it is that their be an independent advisory counsel on nanotechnology because if we're going to have a significant financial investment, it ought to be matched by a significant intellectual investment, and that ensures that we have the best possible people on this job. And Chairman Allen and I and Oregon have some more discussions on this, with some obviously feeling that the president's commission of advisors on science and technology should be the overseeing body. The nanotechnology efforts and the National Research Council. And I think virtually all the independent academic experts feel that the language we've got in our bill is appropriate.

As I say, Chairman Allen and I have worked out all of these issues. And certainly have come up with resolutions on matters far more contentious than this. And I look forward to working with you, Mr. Chairman, on this.

And we close on -- simply by welcoming one of our witnesses, Dr. Jun Jiao of Portland State University. She is a leader in the field of research and development in a variety of nanotechnology disciplines, and I'm just thrilled that one of the great minds in the field is here today and wanted to welcome her, and look forward to working with you on this, Chairman, and move this legislation quickly to the Senate floor.

ALLEN: Thank you, Senator Wyden, for your great leadership and then your comments about this hearing and -- and the promise of nanotechnology. Now we're going to listen to -- to the real experts. We're trying to facilitate and move -- help you all move forward so you're improving our material sciences and biological sciences and life sciences and so forth.

I'm going to first introduce the -- the first panel, and then hear from you in the order in which I have made some brief preparatory remarks about each of you. First with Dr. James Murday. Dr. Murday is the acting chief of science -- chief of science of the Office of Naval Research. Until recently, he served as director of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office. Perfect to have you here. From May to August of 1997, he also served as acting director of research and development -- research for the Department of Defense Research and Engineering.

Dr. James Roberto is the associate laboratory director for physical sciences at Oakridge National Laboratory. He is responsible for ONL's research portfolio in material science, condensed matter physics, chemistry and nuclear physics. He's a former president of the Materials Research Society and chair of the Division of Materials Physics of the American Physical Society. Is that right, American Physical Society? All right.

And also, we have, last but not least, Dr. Clayton Teague. Dr. Teague is the current director of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office. The NNCO provides day-to-day technical and administrative support to the National Nanotechnology Initiative.

Gentlemen, thank you all for being with us. We'd now like to hear your insight and your views, and we'd like to start with you, Dr. Murday. Please proceed.

MURDAY: Thank you. Chairman Allen, Senator Wyden, I am pleased and honored for the opportunity to -- to share some of my enthusiasm on the National Nanotechnology Initiative. As a scientist at the Office of Naval Research, and of the Naval Research Laboratory, I've been engaged in fostering nanoscience since the early 1980s. And in the last few years, that culminated in the privilege of serving as the part-time director of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office.

ALLEN: Could you move in a little bit closer?

MURDAY: Yes, sir. Thank you.

And hopefully that experience over these 20 years is providing some insights that can help accelerate the rate of the science discovery and its transition into innovative technologies.

Concurrent with my involvement in nanoscience, DOD interest dates back into the early 1980s. And by 1997, their interest was sufficiently mature that the DOD created a nanoscience strategic research topic in its basic research program. Thus, the DOD was a natural participant in the 1990 -- 1997 to 2000 year process of creating the national initiative. And that's one of the reasons, my engagement there, that I was asked to serve as the director of the NNCO.

DOD's interest in nanotechnology stems from its future potential impact on national security and, by inference from that, homeland security, homeland defense. And its early entry into nanoscience means that we're in a position to enable some transitions, even in this time frame, without looking for 20 years into the future. And I'll highlight one of those for you in a moment.

MURDAY: For simplicity's sake, I tend to organize nanotechnologies as they pertain to national security and homeland defense in about three generic topic areas. One is nanoelectronics, (inaudible), magnetics. That's basically information technology devices. Sensors to acquire information, logic to process it, memory to store it, communicate and transmit that information, and ultimately to display it. And from my observations in the electronics industry, I believe that by the end of this decade, essentially every electronic device that you, myself and defense acquisition is going to want to buy is going to be enabled by having a nanostructure. Nanostructure inside will be pasted, or should be pasted on all those devices.

Having the capabilities that will add to those devices is going to be very important for information warfare, netcentric (ph) warfare, for the uninhabited combat vehicles, the added intelligence necessary to take the man out of those immediate vehicle, automation to reduce manning, vector (ph) training through virtual reality, which I think will in turn spill down into our schools.

The second generic topic area is what we call nanomaterials by design. And the DOD weapons and platforms frequently require much higher performance than one sees in their counterparts in the civilian sector. And the ability to maneuver things at the nanometer size scale is going to provide much greater capability to give higher performance.

And I've got here an example of this. This is a nanostructure coating, the black coating you see. And these parts have been introduced into the fleet now, they're actually out in operation. They're in reduction gears in on surface ship air conditioning units. They're in hull ball bows (ph) on submarines and in several other applications. The approved -- improved performance that we expect and we're evaluating now in the field are expected to yield considerable savings. The -- the nanostructure coatings have a wear resistance that's five times greater than their microstructured counterparts, and they have 10 times the fatigue life. So this is a significant improvement. Because of these enhancements, this particular coating won an R&D 100 award in the year 2000. That's an award given to one of the top 100 technologies introduced into the marketplace in that year.

The third generic area is in nanobiotechnology. And by far the greatest impact of that's going to be in medicine and health. But it relates also to the war fighter. We were able to monitor physiological status. If you have a man out on point, you want to make sure that he's alert and not going to sleep on you. If you have somebody who's wounded, you'd like to have a system that could detect the status and perhaps start to take some recuperative action. But maybe more importantly, and leads into the homeland security, as well, is in the area of chemical biology warfare defense, weapons of mass destruction.

When you think about this, you work in the nanoscience you can pick up and manipulate and measure individual atoms. These are very small. The chemical agents and the pathogens that we worry about in chemical/biological warfare are large in comparison. So it's relatively reasonable to expect that we can take those tools we're using in nanoscience and morph them into highly sensitive detection techniques. And in fact, we're beginning to see that will happen. Further, since these can be miniaturized, you can have arrays of them, and that addresses the selectivity part of the battle.

MURDAY: So dramatic advances in the sensor. You also can expect to see advances in protection, decontamination, therapeutics. To recognize some of these opportunities, some of the DOD scientists organized a workshop about a year ago about nanotechnology innovation for chemical, biological, radiological and explosive detection protection. That workshop came up with a set of recommendations, which has gone to the national initiative and will be part of the planning process as we go through a revitalization of that NNI (ph).

MURDAY: Let me finish with a couple of observations from my tenure with the NNCO. The first is that, having sweated out the uncertainties in the transition from the Clinton to the Bush administration and wondering whether we were going to survive as an initiative, I very much appreciate the incorporation of the initiative into law.

Second point is the -- the nanoscale science engineering technology committees, populated by a dedicated group of agency department nanotechnology champions, with Dr. Mike Rocco (ph) of Venice Sleeter (ph), those champions are essential to the continued success of the NNI. And they now face a -- a real task of taking a program that is just now leaving its infancy and moving into adolescence. And making sure that we do that appropriately and we do it in a way that will help accelerate the transition into commercial products.

And I can assure you that the interest and support that you're showing for the initiative is very important to this group of people and will help them accomplish that task. Thank you for your attention.

ALLEN: Thank you very much, Doctor, Dr. Murday, for your insight, and I also like your enthusiasm. Some people may look at this and think, well, what is that? It's a piece of pipe, or whatever. But the -- the specifics of it and the specifications and its longevity do mean a great deal, and it's the way that we're going to have to compete and succeed in the future, is with these sort of, while seeming mundane, very, very significant improvements. So thank you very much.

Now we'd like to hear from Dr. Roberto. Dr. Roberto?

ROBERTO: Chairman Allen, Senator Wyden, I'm the associate laboratory director for physical sciences at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, which is a department of ND multi-program laboratory managed by UT-Patel, a partnership of the University of Tennessee and the Patel Memorial Institute. It's an honor to appear before the Committee in Support of the 21st Century Nanotechnology R&D Act.

In my role at Oak Ridge, I oversee the physical sciences, which includes nanoscale science and technology. This includes the development of R&L's (ph) Center for Nanophase Material Sciences, one of DOE's five planned nanoscale science research centers.

These centers are state-of-the-art user facilities that will be located at Argonne, Berkeley, Brook Haven, Los Alamos and San Dia (ph) and Oak Ridge National Laboratories. Each center will focus on a nanoscale research -- will focus on nanoscale research and development that leverages the unique capabilities of the host laboratory, including major syncrotron (ph), neutron and microfabrication facilities. The (inaudible) nanotechnology centers will help fulfill a presidential priority of providing American researchers with the foremost capability in this break-through technology. Not only DOE researchers but also other agencies, U.S. industry and universities will benefit from these centers.

The excitement surrounding nanoscale science and technology is real. Recently, we held DOE nanoscale science research centers workshop in Washington. We track in more than 400 scientists and engineers from 94 universities, 40 industries and 15 federal laboratories. More than 2,000 researchers have attended regional and national workshops for these centers. In fact, it's difficult to find a month without a national or international meeting in this field.

Nanoscale science and technology cross-cuts the traditional disciplines of material science, chemistry, physics, biology, computational science and engineering. It occupies the frontiers of these fields and includes some of the most challenging research problems. The solutions to these problems offer a line of sight to technical advances of enormous potential in materials, information technology, health care and national security. Many see nanotechnology as the basis of the next industrial revolution.

For the (inaudible) and energy, the opportunities that are afforded by nanoscale science and technology are unprecedented. Research on the synthesis and -- and properties of nanoscale systems, consistent of tens to thousands of atoms, underpins progress in a multitude of high impact fields, including catalysis (ph) science, photovoltaics, sensor technology, high performance alloys and advanced materials for fuel cells and hydrogen storage.

Applications include low cost, high frequency solar cells; materials that are 10 to 100 times stronger than steel at one-sixth the weight; energy efficient smart coatings for windows; high efficiency solid (inaudible) lighting; and new catalysts for energy conversion chemical processing. These applications offer enormous energy, national security, environmental and economic benefits.

John Marburger (ph), the director of OSTP, describes the nanotechnology revolution as one in which the notion that everything is made of atoms has a real operational significance. This has been made possible by extraordinary tools, such as synchotime (ph) light sources, neutron sources, electron microscopes, scanning probe microscopes and high performance computers. These tools have enabled the atomic scale characterization, manipulation and simulation of complex assemblies of atoms and molecules. This bottoms-up view of the physical world embraces breath-taking complexity and seemingly endless possibilities.

We are now at a crossroads in the physical sciences. The boundaries between the scientific disciplines are disappearing at the nanoscale. The study of simple, isolated systems is giving way to complex assemblies. We are moving from atomic scale characterization to atomic scale control, from miniaturization to self-assembly. This paradigm shift for the physical sciences rivals other revolutions in science, such as the revolution in biology following the discovery of the molecular structure of DNA.

It is this opportunity and the technological impact that will result that underpins the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act. This act is an important element of the strategy to strengthen the physical sciences in the United States. Other components include the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, the Energy Research Development Demonstration and Commercial Application Act, and the Energy Science Research Investment Act.

The traceability of advances in the physical sciences to economic growth, new medical technology, energy independence and enhanced national security is very strong. As you know, the present council advisors on science and technology has given high priority to strengthening the physical sciences, including nanoscale science and technology. I appreciate the committee's leadership in this area. I firmly believe that the future of our nation depends on continued leadership at the scientific and technological frontier, a frontier that includes nanoscale science and technology.

Thank you.

ALLEN: Thank you -- Thank you, Doctor Roberto and we'll have questions for you later, because I'm all intrigued by some of those great advancements you're talking about there at Oak Ridge.

Now we'd like to hear from Dr. Clayton Teague, director of the Nano -- National Nanotechnology Coordination Office. Dr. Teague?

TEAGUE: Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Senator Wyden and Senator Sununu, I'm pleased and honored to have this opportunity to appear before you today to address the plans for the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office and the Nanoscale Science Engineering and Technology, or the NSET, subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council.

I believe strongly in the potential and the importance of nanotechnology for the security, the economic prosperity, and the welfare of our nation. I also share this committee's belief that federal support for nanotechnology R&D is essential for the nation to realize the full benefits of this emerging field.

I submitted my written testimony for your consideration, so here I would just emphasize three important points from that record.

First one, nanotechnology is practically limitless in its potential for creating new materials, new devices and systems. Initial commercialization and economic impact that we're just beginning to see is only a hint of what I think is to come.

Let me illustrate. There's 6,720 ways to permute the six different letters among the eight characters, or places, in the name of the chairman's state, Virginia. There's 6,720 ways to permute -- to permute the six different letters among the eight characters, or places, in the name of the chairman's state, Virginia. If you took the six different characters and looked at all the possible ways that you could relocate them, you would find there's 6,720 different ways that you could do that.

So now if you'll imagine the huge number of possible permutations of the 91 atoms that make up the periodic table among the millions of places in a small nanostructure. What we can build, if you think about all of those possibilities, will really be limited more by our creativity than -- and our imagination than by the laws of physics.

I uttered a great promise that we've just talked about in terms of that rich area must be tempered with the realization that our nanotechnology capabilities are the very embryonic and infant stage as Dr. Murday had talked about. As someone who's involved in it for many years, it's sort of surprising to realize it's taken us 20 years to progress from the ability to see atoms, then to manipulate them and finally, a few years ago, to build a simple three-atom structure. Twenty years. So to build a nanostructure large enough to absorb in an optical microscope, about one micrometer, would require assembling millions of atoms.

I hope that talking about that in that sense will give you a sense of the amazing potential that nanotechnology has and also a sense of the tasks remaining for us to realize that potential.

My second point: nanotechnology research has potential applications in all the multiple agency emission areas and the NNI and the NSET were created to ensure coordination of federal funding and to engender the rapid development of nanotechnology in the United States.

Technology transfer and commercialization have been the key elements of the NNI's plan from its inception. The NSET member agencies have responded by designing industry outreach activities and through their NNI related programs. Some specific examples are given in my written testimony, and I believe if you examine those that you will see that they -- their impact is evidenced by the exponential growth over the past several years and the number of technical papers and articles that have been written on nanotechnology, the number of U.S. patents that have been filed, nanotechnology companies formed and products brought to the market.

Nanotechnology based products that have become available just even over the last year range from water filters for removing harmful microorganisms to protective and glare-reducing coatings for eyeglasses and cars to stain-free clothing and mattresses.

For the future, nanotechnology promises a lot of the things you've already heard about today, but break-throughs in biomedicine, sensor technologies and energy production storage.

My third and final point: the NNI has grown in scope and scale over the last four years, and it's now at a stage for refocusing and strengthening, including a review by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, the PCAST. PCAST will serve as the independent standing nanoscience and nanotechnology advisory board called for in the recent NRC report that Senator Wyden mentioned. The PCAST is well suited to conduct this review, since its members have extensive expertise in technological developments, the operation of federal R&D programs, and technology transfer. The PCAST panel also has the seniority and the visibility that will assure that its findings have impact.

PCAST and co-chair Ford Kwame (ph) have already begun their review and planning processes. PCAST work plan focuses on further refining the grand challenge topics to guide in the NNI program. And second, assisting in the development of an NNI strategic plan that was also called for in the NRC report. These two tasks are complementary to the activities of the NSET toward formulating a new NNI strategic plan.

In summary, nanotechnology is still at a very early stage of development and there are tremendous opportunities and challenges before us. The NNI has for almost five years now served as an effective means for coordinating federally funded activities in nanotechnology. As this initiative matures and grows, the NNCO is scaling up to meet the additional responsibilities that this entails. We greatly appreciate the endorsement of the NNI's achievements and potential that was implicit in the language of the proposed 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act.

Mr. Chairman and Senator Wyden and Senator Sununu, we thank you again for your support in bringing this bill forth. The NNCO staff and I look forward to working with the other members of the NSET, PCAST and the legislative branch to move NNI, hopefully, into the next stage of the maturing era of the nanotechnology program.

Thank you.

ALLEN: Thank you, Dr. Teague. Thank you, all doctors here. (inaudible) line of questioning here. I'll -- I'll begin and then turn it over to Senator Wyden and then Senator Sununu may also, I'm sure, have some insightful questions of you, as well.

ALLEN: Listening to you all, at the -- you all talk about all these different developmental levels. There's something rather tangible, which is good. Some of this, again, is very early. There's a lot -- there is much research and development going on in a variety of ways, some at colleges and universities, clearly in the private sector, some in your variety of perspectives, in governmental agencies. I'd ask each one of you, what -- and I was thinking, looking at each of you -- what are the greatest barriers today for the -- the application for the variety of these very exciting opportunities of nanotechnology in a variety of disciplines and getting the applications of this into the commercial sector? Now, some of it is research, but more importantly, could you share with me and share with the committee what's -- what's the biggest barrier, what is, let's say, the greatest challenge for the transfer of these advances of nanotechnology to the commercial sector? And I'll go with you, Dr. Murday, Roberto and Teague.

MURDAY: OK. You've identified a problem that, I'm sure you're well aware, is not unique to nano. How you get something out of science and discovery into technology is a never ending challenge. And so this is just one variant on it.

There are a couple of things that I think are -- that need to be addressed. One is we are just now opening up the nanostructures that Dr. Teague talked about. The are quality factor, the ability to manufacture on the large scale in a cost effective fashion, is still somewhat limited. So we've got to address manufacturability in order, especially to get the reliability and cost, the improvements that are necessary.

Second, we've got to look to moving ideas out of the universities, since most of the funding out of the NNI is in the universities, by intent. So we have the science and discoveries happening there and the mechanisms to move the ideas out of the universities and into the commercial sector is the challenge, as it is for the other tech discoveries in science, as well. But there we're trying to work with the states and local bodies to help that process to create the -- through NSF in particular -- the NSECs, the Nanoscale Science and Engineering Centers, which have university involved directly with industry.

Within the DOD there has been a UARC, a University Affiliated Research Center, for soldier nanotechnologies up at MIT. So deliberately reaching out into the university community and helping them form alliances with companies.

We've also tried to pay attention to the SPIR programs, because that is a mechanism to reach out and push new ideas into new businesses and a number of state and -- both private and public universities are creating science parks, where you can get these SPIRs nurtured. And the SPI provides some of the funds that are appropriate to it.

And then finally, we're trying to reach out into the venture capital community, as well, keep them aware of what are the true opportunities, trying to be careful not to over-hype the area, to lead to unrealistic expectations. But I have a view graph that I sometimes use that has nanotechnology as the real dot com, as opposed to the bust of 10 years ago.

ROBERTO: I guess I'd like to say -- I'd like to say three things. First of all, the line of sight from the -- the scientific discoveries in nanotechnology and applications is a lot clearer than it is in many other areas of science. And so, in this sense, I think that a very difficult job is made a little bit easier in this field.

Secondly, it's certainly -- coming from a DOE national laboratory, I'm -- I'm aware of the -- of the level of effort that goes into technology transfer. And into bringing in university partners, into identifying opportunities, into the -- the effort to get technology out into -- into the marketplace. I'm also aware that many research universities have similar efforts underway, and -- and my general feeling is that in the area of -- of nanotech science and technology, that -- that we are finding there's a very significant interest and we are making those -- those partnerships in a more -- in a more productive or -- or easy fashion. Not that it's -- not that it's ever an easy task, bringing these -- these various parties together.

Finally, the DEO nanoscale science research centers really are developed to help enable this process. These will be state-of-the-art centers. They will be located at laboratories where we've already made a billion-dollar level investments in neutron sources or syncrotron sources or microfabrication equipment. And they will be available to universities and industry, and they will -- they will provide an opportunity for -- or labs and universities and industries to work together in areas that can help bring the science into the marketplace.

TEAGUE: I guess I'd like to comment on it from -- first from a scientific standpoint in terms of you taking things from the research laboratory to commercialization. And I think one of the things that you probably heard some other people say, but just to reemphasize it, that I think that (inaudible) from Dr. Murday's comments about the manufacturability and the manufacture processes, that one of the things that is so needed in almost all the different many processes you were referring to when you talked about how we make nanotechnology products, is the degree of control of the processes that are being used.

Probably you've heard many times about nanotubes and how important and how valuable the nanotubes are. And it's hard to realize that -- as much as we had them and as much as you're -- about them being manufactured as products and things like that, we have a very, very loose control over the properties of the nanotubes which are manufactured.

If you looked at, maybe you say that there's a pencil that some people have that has a nanotube structure printed on the surface of the pencil. And it shows you two different ways in which you can construct a nanotube. One of them is that -- it's called the -- it's made out of a sheet of carbon and you, if you roll up a sheet of carbon you have a nanotube. And depending upon the twist that you put into it as you roll it up, it totally changes the properties of the nanotube. In one way of it being twisted, it's a -- almost like a metal, has the conductive of metal. If you twist it a slightly different way, it's like a semiconductor. If you twist it a slightly different way, it's an insulator. And Professor Smalley (ph), several times he said, "If I had one big challenge right now, it would be how could we manufacture nanotubes with a known twist so that I could predict, when I made a nanotube, that it would be a metal, a semiconductor or an insulator?"

And if you look at a lot of the other products that are nanotube based, their structure and their properties are so dependent upon the -- the exact atomic structure of the materials until that degree of control is absolutely essential for being able to produce in quantity and at low cost the wonderful things that we can produces in ones and twos in the laboratories and say, look at these things. Until you can have control, it's hard to go from ones and twos in the laboratory to something that you can produces as a manufacturable product at a good cost.

So -- and how do you get that better control of the processes? I think that that's the essential part of the federal funding for R&D. I think one of the absolutely key parts of the whole nanotechnology program in the United States is a very firm realization that there's a lot of investment and a long time of R&D, probably as long of an R&D investment to bring something to this high degree of control as it's been with almost any other technology. So I think one of the ways to bring something to market is to realize that it's going to take good support at the federal level to carry out and complete the ready, underlying, fundamental research and development so that companies can pick it up at a level that is economically viable for them to move into the market place and make good production.

ALLEN: OK. Thank you, gentlemen. I'm going to turn it over to Senator Wyden, but in listening to you all, first to Dr. Murday, some of -- some of the answer to my question really is nothing new. That's the basic economics, commercial application, no matter what's coming out of the universities. The commercialization or obviously protecting the intellectual property, whatever the method of -- whatever the nanotech application may be, venture capital opportunities. All of that really is just basic economics that we've seen before with any sort of advancement in any new idea or process.

The -- the same applies to what you were saying, Dr. Roberto, is although you're saying the applications are more clear in nanotech and to the extent that those applications are more clear, that does help with the venture capital. It all, then, comes back to the standard and probably, by analogy, making sure that the methods are standard or -- or control of processes is. In which you talk about, again, I guarantee there's some analogy. This is not the first time; this is not an issue of first impression. And I -- I'm sure that applies to extrusion and the manufacturing of all sorts of materials in plastics, metals and films, where there needs to be that -- that standard or that grading or the method of production that has that -- that quality that is desired by whomever the ultimate user may be.

So fortuitously, we're at the early stages, but none of -- none of these are never considered problems. Again, you may have to just use some common sense and creativity and -- and the best of all of this is that we're only limited by our imagination. All of the -- the challenges you all brought up here are easily -- I shouldn't say easily surmountable but have been faced before and certainly can be -- the challenges can be surmounted in the future.

Thank you all. Thank you so much. And I'm turn it over to Senator Wyden.

WYDEN: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was really excellent. That was almost like a teach-in on nanotechnology, and I -- I thank you for it. The panel was terrific, and I thank you all. And let me get into a couple of nuts and bolts issues that we're going to have to work out to -- to wrap this up.

Dr. Teague, on the advisory panel, you were quite passionate about PCAST in effect being the lead, and Senator Allen and I have already had all kinds of people lobbying us and jockeying with respect to this whole issue. Let me get a sense a bit of your reaction to how I come at it.

If you look at the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, this is an extraordinary group. I've worked with many of them myself. This is not in question when people like Dr. Healy, Floyd Kvamme. I mean, these are people I've known for years and I have looked to for help on technology questions. That is not what's at issue.

What is at issue is at first impression, this does not look like a group that has a history of involvement in the nanotechnology area. This looks like a group of incredibly dedicated, thoughtful people who are going to be coming at nanotechnology for the first time. So what we did, first, in the last Congress when I put this legislation together with Chairman Allen, again, now is we said what we need to do is follow the recommendation of the National Research Council, which is from the get-go go out and find the very best people who on day one are going to have some history and some involvement with respect to nanotechnology.

My question to you is I'd like to hear your reaction to sort of how I've approached this and also your thoughts on how we figure out how to work this out and -- and get it resolved, because it -- this is a terrific bill. Chairman Allen and I have spent a ton of time on it. I've already gotten a sense from the House there's been a dust-up a bit on this issue. We're not going to let that happen. Chairman Allen and I have worked out much tougher issues than -- than this. So let us see if we can have you great minds give us your insight on this and yourself, Dr. Teague, with respect to how I've come to my assessment of this and what you think we might do to make sure we just get this to the president's desk quickly.

TEAGUE: Well, I would certainly concur with that last sentiment, and relative to PCAST, one of the reasons I guess I was very enthusiastic about it is that I think that there are -- there are members and some of the ones that you mentioned, certainly, who have some experience with nanotechnology, but some of the...

WYDEN: Tell me who of the PCAST membership now has experience with nanotechnology. I'm not aware that they do, and that's -- that's what's in question, and we need experts like you. I mean, just if you would, Charles Arntzen, Norm Augustine, Carol Bartz, Kathleen Behrens, Erich Bloch, Stephen Burke, Wayne Clough, Michael Dell, Raul Fernandez, George Scalise, Luis Proenza, Steve Papermaster, tremendous group. Who -- who has background to date in nanotechnology?

TEAGUE: The two that I guess that would come to mind most immediately would be the president of the Georgia Institute of Technology, Wayne Clough, and the president of MIT, Charles Vest. I think certainly both of those have a lot of nanotechnology-related activities within their universities. Certainly, they are at the highest level of the administration of their institutions. But I think both of them would have a great deal of knowledge of what would be going on in the field of nanotechnology, just from interacting with, I would say, the physics departments, the chemistry departments, the material science departments within their respective institutions. So I would think they would be quite informed relative to that.

Gordon Moore, certainly, in terms of looking at the ultra miniaturization of microelectronics, I would think is definitely familiar with -- with the extreme miniaturization that one might achieve, down through the nanoelectronics and the molecular electronics level. I would think that in his many years of experience with electronics would have a very good perspective on -- on the basic understanding of what would happen to electronics at the nanoscale level.

So I -- there -- some of the other ones, I think, even if you look at -- I forget one of the members of the committee also had a lot of background in -- in the bio area. And I think that the -- the biotechnology aspect and its heavy overlap with nanotechnology is going to be very crucial in, again, having the proper perspective on what's happening in the area of nanotechnology.

Finally, I guess, relative to that the PCAST itself is -- they've decided in their proceeding of their assessment that they're going to obtain additional expertise through the formation of different technical task forces to assist them in their assessment. So they're -- they're not going to do it just -- just on their own. They're going to be actually forming and pooling task forces of experts in the field, very much as you're indicating is being needed. And I would agree that there are some additional possible inputs needed onto it.

Yet two of the points that I think are so important about PCAST. First one is that, relative to the question that Mr. Chairman was asking in terms of the technology transfer, I think the -- the business acumen and the experience of many people on the PCAST would be tremendously valuable in understanding the transition of the technology out into the commercial and into the economic factors that would be involved in that.

And finally, I guess, from my perspective, one of -- one of the greatest assets of the PCAST so far is that they have -- they've become engaged and they are taking -- they're really taking action relative to trying to understand and to do some real assessment of the NNI. I think -- that to me is -- is one of the most important aspects of any kind of counselor, any kind of committee of this nature, is that they really do engage with whatever their charge is. And so far PCAST has indicated a very good interest and very good action in tackling the problem.

WYDEN: Well, again, I -- I can't say enough good things about PCAST generally. This is not what the discussion's about. But the 25 people on there, and you mentioned three who you thought have some involvement in nanotechnology. I want to make sure that on day one...

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Oh, good.

WYDEN: We've got everybody with proven expertise and a track record in this area, and we're going to work this out. We -- we just -- too important and -- and the bill was too good to have this be an issue and it flounders.

And by the way, I agree with your point with respect to technology transfers, as well. We're going to hear from another witness. I noted, Mr. Chairman, we have another private sector witness who points out something you and I talked about, which is that BIDOL (ph) has not worked as well as it need to, neither for industries, universities or taxpayers. And the point that Dr. Teague is making with respect to how important it is is improved tech transfers, one that I very much -- that involves getting the private businesses in early with their suggestions for how to do it.

A couple of other quite questions, and I know Senator Sununu's got a great interest in this, too. Want to let him get at it.

Gentlemen, how are we doing with respect to the global competition? Last year, Japan spent $650 million on nanotechnology research. Europe was at $400 million. A host of other countries have spent substantial sums. Really, the two areas that I want to touch on, maybe you can talk about them together. One was how do we fare with respect to global competition and the second is what needs to be done with our universities, and particularly the multidisciplinary approach that's going to be so important. And so perhaps in the interest of time maybe you could take both of those two together for our witnesses, the question of global competition and where we stack up and what do we need to be doing with our universities to foster a multidisciplinary approach.



*******************

Article 365

For more than 50 years, the National Science Foundation has been a major contributor to innovative science and engineering research and education. The Congress recognized these valuable contributions through the passage of the 5-year reauthorization bill last year, with steady and substantial increases in authorized budgets for the agency. This recognition is greatly appreciated. 

The National Science Board approved and supports the National Science Foundation's budget submission for FY 2004. We assure you that the $5.48 billion will be well spent. We fully support the Foundation's investment in the six priority areas of biocomplexity, information technology, nanoscale science and engineering, mathematical sciences, human and social dynamics, and the 21 S' century workforce. These areas hold exceptional promise for new discoveries, educational opportunities, and practical applications.

The Board also believes it is crucial to maintain a strong portfolio of investments in the core disciplines. The increased funds received for FY 2003 will strengthen the core research and education programs. The Foundation's FY 2004 budget request recognizes the need to increase funding to the physical sciences and includes a 12.7 percent increase for physics, chemistry, mathematics, and materials research.


*******************

Article 366

Opportunities to advance knowledge have never been greater than they are today. NSF invests in emerging areas of research that hold exceptional potential to strengthen U.S. world leadership in areas of global economic and social importance. This year, we are requesting funding for six of these priority areas: biocomplexity, information technology, nanoscale science and engineering, mathematical sciences, human and social dynamics, and the 21st century workforce.

The budget includes a $100 million dollar request for research in Biocomplexity in the Environment. This investment will continue support for microbial genome sequencing and the ecology of infectious diseases, two areas that are of vital importance to the nation's anti terrorism efforts. Research that charts the interactions among physical, human, and other living systems, will improve our ability to understand and manage our environment. The development of new technologies and tools rounds out this investment.

As the lead agency in two of the Administration's top interagency R&D efforts, NSF has provided an investment of $724 million in Networking and Information Technology Research and Development and $249 million in the National Nanotechnology Initiative.

Our priority area investment in Information Technology Research of $303 million will advance every field of science and add to our economic prospects. We propose to expand fundamental research in high-end computation and large-scale networking. Other investments address the need for safe and dependable information systems for national security and consumer protection. To reap the educational benefits of the information revolution, we plan to focus on the use of cutting-edge IT research in the classroom.

The emerging field of nanoscale science and engineering promises a revolution at least as far-reaching as the one we've witnessed in information, computer and communications technologies. The ability to manipulate and control matter at the atomic and molecular levels

will open new possibilities in materials and manufacturing, medicine, environment and energy, and national security. As the lead agency in the National Nanotechnology Initiative, NSF is requesting $249 million to expand basic research on new materials, biological systems at the nanoscale, and quantum computing. We will address the need to build capacity through investments in centers, training programs, and equipment. Research on the social and educational impacts of nanotechnology can prepare us to make the best use of new applications.

Mathematics is the lingua franca, or as I like to say, the Esperanto of science and engineering. It leads us to new and deeper insights in every discipline. We propose to invest $90 million in the Mathematical Sciences priority area to pursue fundamental research in the mathematical sciences and statistics, and programs that will bring cutting-edge mathematical and statistical techniques to all fields.


*******************

Article 367

WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   KURZWEIL, RAYMOND (Chairman and CEO, Kurzweil Technologies, Inc)
   COLVIN, VICKI L. (Executive Director, Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology, Rice University)
   WINNER, LANGDON (Professor, Political Science, Department of Science and Technology Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute)
   PETERSON, CHRISTINE (President, Foreign Institute)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Views on potential societal impacts of nanotechnology; outlook for and projected applications of nanotechnology, citing accelerating rate of technology integration (related graphs, p. 25-34 passim); concerns regarding potential applications of nanotechnology; examination of specific ethical issues relevant to nanotechnology development and applications.
   Recommendations to integrate procedures to address societal and ethical concerns into nanotechnology R&D process.
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   Small scale science and technology, societal and ethical implications review


*******************

Article 368

I want to welcome everyone here this morning for this important hearing. It's rare that Congress gets - or, I should say, takes - the opportunity to take a step back and think about the consequences of technological change, even though they are a driving force in our society. So I'm eager to get this hearing started. I just want to say that we should approach today's hearing with even-handedness and humility. With evenhandedness because technology, like most human endeavors, inevitably leads to both positive and negative consequences. The one thing we can be sure of is that nanotechnology will be neither the unalloyed boon predicted by technophiles nor the unmitigated disaster portrayed by technophobes. The truth will be in between, and it is worth probing. 

But how good are we at probing it? Here's where the humility comes in. As Yogi Berra is supposed to have said, "It's always difficult to make predictions, especially about the future." And indeed our record when it comes to technology is not very good. But how good can we expect to be? The social consequences of technology - the most subtle and far-reaching impacts - are the most difficult to predict and even more difficult to forestall.

But that's not a reason to do nothing. We ought to figure out as much as we can about the potential impacts of technology and plan accordingly. The most tangible, direct impacts - like harms to the environment or health - should be susceptible to study even if we don't get everything right, right from the beginning/

So I hope we have a thorough, in depth discussion this morning that avoids easier answers and that makes distinctions between different types of potential consequences - those that are social, those that raise ethical questions, those that involve purposeful misuse of technology, those that relate to the environment, and so on - because each type of consequence raises its own set of questions.

I think those questions are worth investigating - not just about nanotechnology - but about all technologies. And I'm pleased that H.R. 766, the nanotechnology bill that I've introduced with Mr. Honda, authorizes research grants on societal and ethical consequences, and requires that that research be integrated with the physical science research. We will mark up that bill on April 30 and I expect it to be on the House floor the following week.

As many people here know, the most extravagant fear about nanotechnology is that it will yield nanobots that will turn the world into "gray goo." That's not a fear I share, but I do worry that the debate about nanotechnology could turn into "gray goo" - with its own deleterious consequences. I'm hopeful that today's hearing and H.R. 766 will keep the debate solid and lively. Thank you.

*******************

Article 369

Chairman Boehlert, distinguished members of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science, and other distinguished guests, I appreciate this opportunity to respond to your questions and concerns on the vital issue of the societal implications of nanotechnology. Our rapidly growing ability to manipulate matter and energy at ever smaller scales promises to transform virtually every sector of society, including health and medicine, manufacturing, electronics and computers, energy, travel, and defense. There will be increasing overlap between nanotechnology and other technologies of increasing influence, such as biotechnology and artificial intelligence. As with any other technological transformation, we will be faced with deeply intertwined promise and peril.

In my brief verbal remarks, I only have time to summarize my conclusions on this complex subject, and I am providing the Committee with an expanded written response that attempts to explain the reasoning behind my views. 

Eric Drexler's 1986 thesis developed the concept of building molecule-scale devices using molecular assemblers that would precisely guide chemical reactions. Without going through the history of the controversy surrounding feasibility, it is fair to say that the consensus today is that nano-assembly is indeed feasible, although the most dramatic capabilities are still a couple of decades away.

The concept of nanotechnology today has been expanded to include essentially any technology where the key features are measured in a modest number of nanometers (under 100 by some definitions). By this standard, contemporary electronics has already passed this threshold.

For the past two decades, I have studied technology trends, along with a team of researchers who have assisted me in gathering critical measures of technology in different areas, and I have been developing mathematical models of how technology evolves. Several conclusions from this study have a direct bearing on the issues before this hearing. Technologies, particularly those related to information, develop at an exponential pace, generally doubling in capability and price-performance every year. This observation includes the power of computation, communication - both wired and wireless, DNA sequencing, brain scanning, brain reverse engineering, and the size and scope of human knowledge in general. Of particular relevance to this hearing, the size of technology is itself inexorably shrinking. According to my models, both electronic and mechanical technologies are shrinking at a rate of 5.6 per linear dimension per decade.

At this rate, most of technology will be "nanotechnology" by the 2020s. The golden age of nanotechnology is, therefore, a couple of decades away. This era will bring us the ability to essentially convert software, i.e., information, directly into physical products. We will be able to produce virtually any product for pennies per pound. Computers will have greater computational capacity than the human brain, and we will be completing the reverse engineering of the human brain to reveal the software design of human intelligence. We are already placing devices with narrow intelligence in our bodies for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. With the advent of nanotechnology, we will be able to keep our bodies and brains in a healthy, optimal state indefinitely. We will have technologies to reverse environmental pollution. Nanotechnology and related advanced technologies of the 2020s will bring us the opportunity to overcome age-old problems, including pollution, poverty, disease, and aging.

We hear increasingly strident voices that object to the intermingling of the so-called natural world with the products of our technology. The increasing intimacy of our human lives with our technology is not a new story, and I would remind the committee that had it not been for the technological advances of the past two centuries, most of us here today would not be here today. Human life expectancy was 37 years in 1800. Most humans at that time lived lives dominated by poverty, intense labor, disease, and misfortune. We are immeasurably better off as a result of technology, but there is still a lot of suffering in the world to overcome. We have a moral imperative, therefore, to continue the pursuit of knowledge and of advanced technologies that can continue to overcome human affliction.

There is also an economic imperative to continue. Nanotechnology is not a single field of study that we can simply relinquish, as suggested by Bill Joy's essay, "Why the Future Doesn't Need Us." Nanotechnology is advancing on hundreds of fronts, and is an extremely diverse activity. We cannot relinquish its pursuit without essentially relinquishing all of technology, which would require a Brave New World totalitarian scenario, which is inconsistent with the values of our society.

Technology has always been a double-edged sword, and that is certainly true of nanotechnology. The same technology that promises to advance human health and wealth also has the potential for destructive applications. We can see that duality today in biotechnology. The same techniques that could save millions of lives from cancer and disease may also empower a bioterrorist to create a bioengineered pathogen. A lot of attention has been paid to the problem of self-replicating nanotechnology entities that could essentially form a nonbiological cancer that would threaten the planet. I discuss in my written testimony steps we can take now and in the future to ameliorate these dangers. However, the primary point I would like to make is that we will have no choice but to confront the challenge of guiding nanotechnology in a constructive direction. Any broad attempt to relinquish nanotechnology will only push it underground, which would interfere with the benefits while actually making the dangers worse.

As a test case, we can take a small measure of comfort from how we have dealt with one recent technological challenge. There exists today a new form of fully nonbiological self-replicating entity that didn't exist just a few decades ago: the computer virus. When this form of destructive intruder first appeared, strong concerns were voiced that as they became more sophisticated, software pathogens had the potential to destroy the computer network medium they live in. Yet the "immune system" that has evolved in response to this challenge has been largely effective. Although destructive self-replicating software entities do cause damage from time to time, the injury is but a small fraction of the benefit we receive from the computers and communication links that harbor them. No one would suggest we do away with computers, local area networks, and the Internet because of software viruses.

One might counter that computer viruses do not have the lethal potential of biological viruses or of destructive nanotechnology. This is not always the case: we rely on software to monitor patients in critical care units, to fly and land airplanes, to guide intelligent weapons in our current campaign in Iraq, and other "mission critical" tasks. To the extent that this is true, however, this observation only strengthens my argument. The fact that computer viruses are not usually deadly to humans only means that more people are willing to create and release them. It also means that our response to the danger is that much less intense. Conversely, when it comes to self-replicating entities that are potentially lethal on a large scale, our response on all levels will be vastly more serious, as we have seen since 9- 11.

I would describe our response to software pathogens as effective and successful. Although they remain (and always will remain) a concern, the danger remains at a nuisance level. Keep in mind that this success is in an industry in which there is no regulation, and no certification for practitioners. This largely unregulated industry is also enormously productive. One could argue that it has contributed more to our technological and economic progress than any other enterprise in human history.

Some of the concerns that have been raised, such as Bill Joy's article, are effective because they paint a picture of future dangers as if they were released on today's unprepared world. The reality is that the sophistication and power of our defensive technologies and knowledge will grow along with the dangers.

The challenge most immediately in front of us is not self- replicating nanotechnology, but rather self-replicating biotechnology. The next two decades will be the golden age of biotechnology, whereas the comparable era for nanotechnology will follow in the 2020s and beyond. We are now in the early stages of a transforming technology based on the intersection of biology and information science. We are learning the "software" methods of life and disease processes. By reprogramming the information processes that lead to and encourage disease and aging, we will have the ability to overcome these afflictions. However, the same knowledge can also empower a terrorist to create a bioengineered pathogen.

As we compare the success we have had in controlling engineered software viruses to the coming challenge of controlling engineered biological viruses, we are struck with one salient difference. As I noted, the software industry is almost completely unregulated. The same is obviously not the case for biotechnology. A bioterrorist does not need to put his "innovations" through the FDA. However, we do require the scientists developing the defensive technologies to follow the existing regulations, which slow down the innovation process at every step. Moreover, it is impossible, under existing regulations and ethical standards, to test defenses to bioterrorist agents on humans. There is already extensive discussion to modify these regulations to allow for animal models and simulations to replace infeasible human trials. This will be necessary, but I believe we will need to go beyond these steps to accelerate the development of vitally needed defensive technologies.

With the human genome project, 3 to 5 percent of the budgets were devoted to the ethical, legal, and social implications (ELSI) of the technology. A similar commitment for nanotechnology would be appropriate and constructive.

Near-term applications of nanotechnology are far more limited in their benefits as well as more benign in their potential dangers. These include developments in the materials area involving the addition of particles with multi-nanometer features to plastics, textiles, and other products. These have perhaps the greatest potential in the area of pharmaceutical development by allowing new strategies for highly targeted drugs that perform their intended function and reach the appropriate tissues, while minimizing side effects. This development is not qualitatively different than what we have been doing for decades in that many new materials involve constituent particles that are novel and of a similar physical scale. The emerging nanoparticle technology provides more precise control, but the idea of introducing new nonbiological materials into the environment is hardly a new phenomenon. We cannot say a priori that all nanoengineered particles are safe, nor would it be appropriate to deem them necessarily unsafe. Environmental tests thus far have not shown reasons for undue concern, and it is my view that existing regulations on the safety of foods, drugs, and other materials in the environment are sufficient to deal with these near-term applications.

The voices that are expressing concern about nanotechnology are the same voices that have expressed undue levels of concern about genetically modified organisms. As with nanoparticles, GMO's are neither inherently safe nor unsafe, and reasonable levels of regulation for safety are appropriate. However, none of the dire warnings about GMO's have come to pass. Already, African nations, such as Zambia and Zimbabwe, have rejected vitally needed food aid under pressure from European anti-GMO activists. The reflexive anti-technology stance that has been reflected in the GMO controversy will not be helpful in balancing the benefits and risks of nanoparticle technology.

In summary, I believe that existing regulatory mechanisms are sufficient to handle near-term applications of nanotechnology. As for the long term, we need to appreciate that a myriad of nanoscale technologies are inevitable. The current examinations and dialogues on achieving the promise while ameliorating the peril are appropriate and will deserve sharply increased attention as we get closer to realizing these revolutionary technologies.

*******************

Article 370

Good morning Chairman Boehlert, Ranking Member Hall, and Members of the House Science Committee. Thank you for holding this important hearing to consider the societal and ethical impacts of nanotechnology.

Michael Crichton's novel Prey describes a chilling scenario in which swarms of nano-robots-equipped with memory, solar power generators, and powerful software-begin preying on living creatures and reproducing. This may be gripping science fiction; it is not science fact. It does, however, highlight a reaction that could bring the growing nanotechnology industry to its knees: fear. The perception that nanotechnology will cause environmental devastation or human disease could itself turn the dream of a trillion-dollar industry into a nightmare of public backlash. This negative response is possible even if the environmental and health threats never materialize. To nanotechnology researchers like myself, that prospect is all too real, and just as frightening as anything a sci-fi writer can imagine. 

The good news is that its not too late to ensure that nanotechnology develops responsibly and with strong public support. The Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology at Rice University is working toward that goal, and we believe that legislation such as the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003 is central in avoiding this nightmare scenario.

The Wow Index

New developments in technology usually start out with strong public support, as the potential benefits to the economy, human health or quality of life are touted. At our center we call this the "wow index". Genetic engineering promised a revolution in medical care, including the ability to cure or prevent diseases with a genetic basis such as Huntington's disease, hemophilia, cystic fibrosis and some breast cancers. Manipulation of the genome also promised a revolution in how food is produced, by engineering crops with increased yields and longer shelf-lives.

At present, nanotechnology has a very high wow index. For the past decade, nanotechnologists have basked in the glow of positive public opinion. We've wowed the public with our ability to manipulate matter at the atomic level and with grand visions of how we might use this ability. All this "good news" has created a growing perception among business and government leaders that nanotechnology is a powerful platform for 21st century technologies. The good news has given nanotechnology a strong start with extraordinary levels of focused government funding, which is starting to reap tangible benefits to society.

The Yuck Index

However, every new technology brings with it a set of societal and ethical concerns that can rapidly turn "wow" into "yuck". The genetic manipulation of crops grown for human consumption spawned a host of ethical concerns about the advisability of tinkering with the natural order. The public backlash against genetically modified organisms (GMOs), which detractors labeled "Frankenfoods", crippled the industry and ultimately cost billions in lost future revenues.

The campaign against GMOs was successful despite the lack of sound scientific data demonstrating a threat to society. In fact, I argue that the lack of sufficient public scientific data on GMOs, whether positive or negative, was a controlling factor in the industry's fall from favor. The failure of the industry to produce and share information with public stakeholders left it ill-equipped to respond to GMO detractors. This industry went, in essence, from "wow" to "yuck" to "bankrupt". There is a powerful lesson here for nanotechnology.

In contrast, the Human Genome Project provides a good model for how an emerging technology can defuse potential controversy by addressing it in the public sphere. Mapping of the human genome carries with it many of the same potential concerns as do other fields of genetic research. The increased availability of genetic information raises the potential for loss of privacy, misuse by the police and insurance companies, and discrimination by employers. The founders of the Human Genome Project did not try to bury these legitimate concerns by limiting public discourse to the benefits of this new knowledge. Instead, they wisely welcomed and actively encouraged the debate from the outset by setting aside 5% of the annual budget for a program to define and address the ethical, legal and other societal implications of the project.

I sincerely hope that we can learn from this example: early and open discussions of the societal and ethical impacts of new technologies improve their staying power, save taxpayers money, and benefit our society. In effect, early research into unintended consequences redirects the wow-to-yuck trajectory.

Societal, Ethical and Environmental Issues in Nanotechnology

I'd now like to turn to the question of what 'societal and ethical' issues mean within the specific context of nanotechnology. No one has a crystal ball to predict exactly how nanotechnology will change our lives. Unfortunately, due to in part to unrealistic scenarios like the one in Prey, nanotechnology's yuck index is rising as people take as fact the fiction of 'invisible nanorobots'; this issue is a distraction from the real and perhaps more mundane issues that this new technology area is facing, particularly in the area of environmental impact.

Nanotechnologies in their diverse forms all share one feature: their reliance on nanoscale materials. In short, nanotechnologies require 'stuff'. This stuff may be a familiar material such as silicon or gold that exhibits unique and very valuable properties when it is "nanosized". Like any material, whether polymers or silicon chips, nanomaterials require energy to manufacture and generate waste to dispose of. It will prove to be expensive to ignore these issues until a mature industry is developed; for example, a growing fraction of the cost of a Pentium chip is not in the raw materials but in the energy and waste disposal costs. Ultimately the industry and society will benefit if we plan now to create a nanomanufacturing industry that minimizes waste production and energy use.

Nanomaterials themselves may also have unintended environmental consequences. As a chemist I know all too well how unforeseen health effects can destroy industries based on complex materials. From asbestos to DDT we have, as a society, paid an enormous price for not evaluating toxicological and ecosystem impacts before industries develop. The real losers here are not environmentalists; instead they are the businesses who enthusiastically embrace new materials, only to face a decade later debilitating liability claims from employees, consumers and governments. And in the case of nanotechnology, the ultimate losers may be the American taxpayers who invested over one billion dollars in nanomaterials research without any hard data on their toxicological and environmental effects.

This might seem like a distant issue with no effects on you or your constituents. However, if you have used a sunscreen in the last year it is possible that your skin came in contact with nanoscale ceramics. Is this a cause for concern? No one knows. It is remarkable that I must answer this way for a field with the funding levels and cachet of nanotechnology. Still, there are some general principles which help us think through the issue. Nanomaterials are valuable in many technologies because they interact quite differently with the body than larger materials. For example, you can wear a silver bracelet with no ill effects but if you eat too much nanoscale silver, as some people have in the belief it has various health benefits, you will turn yourself blue. Finely divided solids have access to areas of the body and interact with biological systems in completely unexpected ways, which is exactly why they are so powerful in medical applications. The converse of this is that unintended exposures- of research workers, factory workers, and the general public-to nanoscale solids could have more dire consequences than turning skin blue. Or they could turn out to be benign. We just don't know. If we fail to answer these questions early, public acceptance of nanotechnologies could be in jeopardy, and the entire industry derailed.

Avoiding the Wow-to-Yuck Trajectory for Nanotechnology

As one of six Nanoscale Science and Engineering Centers funded by the National Science Foundation, CBEN has a mandate to clear major roadblocks to nanotechnology commercialization. We have identified public acceptance as one of these possible roadblocks, and believe that we must look beyond the good news about nanotechnology and precisely characterize the unintended consequences of nanotechnology. We seek to avoid the path traveled by the GMO industry by encouraging the industry to answer the tough questions about societal and environmental impacts while it is still developing.

We need partners in this endeavor. Based on the recent National Research Council report and our own experience, there is little money and interest in the societal, ethical and environmental impact of nanotechnology, despite the rhetoric. Your help here is essential.

The central problem is simply one of human nature: people will instinctively focus on the positive 'wow' potential of nanotechnology. It is a belief in these positive outcomes that motivates researchers, students and most importantly funding agencies. It is not surprising that there has been little interest from nanotechnologists in studying negative implications. At EPA last year, for example, their call for proposals on nanotechnology applications received over a hundred responses while the nanotechnology environmental impact requests, which had much smaller project awards, received only a handful. There is also little incentive for funding agencies to expend their precious resources on this area. For example, when asked to appear before committees like this to justify their existence, I would doubt that federal agencies choose to highlight their research into the possible downsides of the technologies they develop.

There are concrete steps you can take to counteract this inevitable bias. Through legislation such as this, the National Nanotechnology Initiative can make impact studies a priority and, most critically, articulate the arguments for this focus. Policymakers such as yourselves can look past the 'Wow' messages from funding agencies and continually emphasize the need for technical progress to be placed in a social context. Additionally, we must turn to our educational process as well. At CBEN we have found the 'wow to yuck' message very successful at conveying to students and researchers alike how ignorance of the long-term costs of nanotechnology could cripple the field.

Societal, ethical and environmental impact studies are also hard because they must envision a future technological reality. How can the social scientists and environmental engineers best equipped to complete this research choose which possible futuristic nanotechnology or nanomaterial to study? They could look to concrete data, such as the grand challenges of the NNI, to evaluate what specific technological goals have been articulated. Even better, they could partner with subject-matter experts early on. In this way they could study in real-time an evolving technology, and provide feedback to the researchers and students responsible for its development. For societal impact studies to be credible and effective, we must demand the active participation of nanotechnologists in the work. This would be best achieved by affiliating social scientists with major national nanotechnology centers, so as to provide investigators with a broad array of people and research to choose from.

While words can go a long ways, ultimately how nanotechnology develops will be critically sensitive to how its research monies are allocated. I agree with the National Research Council report that suggested that societal, environmental and ethical studies of nanotechnology are underfunded. For example, EPA's investment in nanotechnology, five million dollars per year, has been focused on nanotechnologies for environmental applications; only last year was $500,000 set aside for environmental impact work. NSF also funds basic research in nanoscale environmental issues, but CBEN's limited efforts are the only example I am aware of that consider specifically the environmental impact of engineered nanoparticles. If I had to guess, I would estimate that of the nearly one billion dollars slated to go to nanotechnology this year not even one percent is directed specifically towards studying the societal, ethical and environmental impact of nanotechnology. A tangible symbol of your commitment to this kind of research would be to set a target research funding for the area; the 3 to 5% rule used by the Department of Energy in the Human Genome Project would be a good starting point.

As a young nanotechnologist, in twenty or thirty years I want to see nanotechnology changing people's lives, all for the better. I believe that this can only come to pass by honest, early and sincere exploration of all the risks and benefits of this transformative new area. We have a unique opportunity to guide a nascent industry in the right direction from the outset. The time is now.

*******************

Article 371

When these deeper problems finally did surface powerfully in the 1970s and 1980s, the social coalition that proponents of nuclear power hoped would support them suddenly collapsed. The building of nuclear power plants in the U.S. was halted, possibly forever.

Another episode of technological backfire, one perhaps more relevant to the rise of nanotechnology, is evident in the crisis that now surrounds biotechnology. Once again, the social coalition of support, neglected or even scorned as biotech development moved ahead, has now evaporated in key areas of application. For reasons they find entirely sensible, nations in the European Union now refuse to buy genetically modified foods from the U.S. In a similar way, faced with severe famine, Zambia has refused to accept GMO corn, even as a charitable gift.

What this suggests is that the failure to provide open, thorough and honest attention to the broader social, political and cultural contexts that influence the acceptance or rejection of emerging technologies can lead to disaster. Late in the process, it does little good to tell those who are unwilling that they're being irrational or that there is something woefully defective in their culture (not ours). To paraphrase the great American philosopher, Yogi Berra: If people don't want to adopt your better mousetrap, nobody's going to stop them.

I hope that the legislation you are considering, especially its provisions that support research on social and ethical implications of nanotechnology, will help create new practices and institutions in which all the important questions will be rigorously explored. I cannot predict whether or not broadly based, effective social coalitions will form around nanotech projects. I do know that it is increasingly risky to ignore or exclude the great multiplicity of groups and interests that would like to have a voice in defining what these technologies are and what they mean. In fact, wise policy would try to stimulate understanding of the implications of the technology on a broad scale, fostering widespread study and discussion open to everyone.

The Committee has asked, "What are the current concerns about existing and potential applications of nanotechnology science and engineering?"

Nearly two decades after the publication of Eric Drexler's Engines of Creation, a number of concerns about nanotechnology are finally attracting wide attention.

Some observers predict that particular materials produced by molecular nanotechnology (MNT) will turn out to be environmentally destructive.

Some worry that products of MNT could, in some configuration of events, prove hazardous to human health.

A recurring nightmare is that promised inventions in self- replicating systems might escape the boundaries originally established for them and begin to wreak havoc. As novelist Michael Crichton recently commented, "Imagine a mass of tiny computers, each smaller than a speck of dust, programmed to fly in a cloud over a country like Iraq and send back pictures. Imagine the computers begin to evolve and the aggregate cloud becomes a death dealing swarm that threatens mankind - a mechanical plague."

Others hear about ambitious proposals to employ nanotechnology and other "convergent" technologies to create (decades from now) a race of posthumans. Those not yet persuaded that this is "inevitable" wonder whether it's a good idea to seek to divide the human species in this manner and whether public funds should be spent on such ghoulish research.

Another persistent concern is that the rise of this field will not, as promised, be of general social benefit, but will simply amplify trends long under way -- the concentration of wealth and power in the hands of the few and a widening gap between haves and have-nots in the U.S. and around the globe. Historically speaking, predictions the latest and greatest technology will equalize wealth and opportunity have usually proven false, a fact that never deters boosters of the "next big thing" from promising that this time (!) the economic and social developments will be universally shared.

Faced with the various possibilities described in writings about this new field of research, I must admit that I know too little to judge the likelihood of various scenarios, both optimistic and pessimistic. Indeed, I doubt that anyone has this knowledge at present. Rather than play Cassandra (or Norman Vincent Peale), I would simply note three overriding questions that ought to be considered as our society decides which proposals for nanotechnology research are worth sponsoring.

(1) Should we continue long-standing efforts to conquer and dominate nature rather than seek harmony with natural structures and processes?

During the past two centuries, the desire to conquer nature has often seemed synonymous with progress. Dam the rivers, drain the swamps, harvest the forests, and bring all plants and animals under human control - such counsel seemed eminently sensible. More recently, however, as some unhappy consequences of this ham- fisted approach have surfaced, many scientists, engineers, designers, and entrepreneurs have affirmed that seeking harmony with nature is a more promising technological and economic approach.

Unfortunately, this recognition seems to have escaped the enthusiasts of nanotechnology for whom the prospect of conquering nature right down to the last molecule and atom seems positively invigorating. It appears that God's creation is, alas, not all that it should be. Fortunately, it can now be refashioned by a new generation of godlike spirits who live in Cambridge, Palo Alto, the Research Triangle, and other concentrations of high tech brilliance. Thus, the peculiar values of the American middle class, so exquisitely realized in Happy Meals, SUV's, $200 Nike sneakers, and botox wrinkle treatments, will now be read into the smallest crevasses of the material universe. This is something to look forward to.

All of it occurs at a time in which it should be clear that strategies for dominating nature through brute force have failed repeatedly. For example, the creation of larger, technically more sophisticated fishing boats with better and better ways to track and catch fish has brought astonishing returns. Although it was a difficult battle and took many years to complete, we have finally conquered the Atlantic cod. The poor creature has not raised the white flag. It is simply disappearing from the nets and from the nation's supply of healthy protein.

I understand the obsession with dominating nature and the desire for power and wealth it reflects. These tendencies are a dreary, but recurring presence in modern life. Neverthess, it is still worth inquiring: Why should American taxpayers be asked to subsidize ever more systematic assaults on natural realm? If they knew the kinds of projects sometimes proposed in this domain, how would they feel about them?

At present we see a wide range of scientific and technological strategies that try to work closely with nature rather than impose imperial dominance. It is interesting that these programs -- ones that stress "natural capitalism," "green design" "biomimicry," and "sustainable economy" - point to a new industrial revolution, but one quite different from the revolution described by proponents of nanotechnology. Is it possible that the rush to nanotech will come into conflict effort to create a socially harmonious, ecological sustainable future? That prospect seems entirely likely.

(2) Should we actively promote a path development in which technical means become the driving force that shapes social ends?

The unfolding of nanotechnology may become yet another instance of a familiar phenomenon in which powerful techniques emerge from the lab and then go looking for uses. This pattern defies common sense understandings of the proper relationship between human ends and technical means.

In the common sense sequence, one begins by asking: What are our needs? What fundamental purposes define our inquiries? After the basic social ends have been clarified, compared, debated, and evaluated, we then move on to make choices among existing means, including newly developed technical devices.

As one reads reports coming from scientists and policy makers interested in nanotechnology and converging technologies in several areas of scientific and technological development, one does not see the common sense ends/means thinking at work. In writings on nanotechnology, there seems little willingness to ask: What are society's basic needs at present? What basic goals define our sense of well-being going forward?

What we find instead is a kind of opportunistic means-to-ends logic. Researchers and institutions interested in doing molecular and atomic scale engineering scan the horizon to see what opportunities might be identified as justifications for public funding and private investment.

Thus, enterprising nanotechnologists notice applications that might deliver medical doses tailored to specific cells.

Looking at the sheer size of the Department of Defense budget, nanotech promoters begin imagining ways in which the technology might provide new weapons and other devices to the military. Yes, there's always a lot of money in that.

Others catch on to this lucrative game and say, well, perhaps research on a range of nanotech applications could help the elderly or people with disabilities.

In sum, what we see here are tools that evolve quickly in response to a variety of internal research priorities and then go opportunistically looking for things to do. And, of course, one can always find something.

I am pleased that Congress is prepared to offer support for study of the societal and ethical dimensions of an important new field of scientific and technical research. But I fear that the manner in which the work is done will reproduce the kind of backwards logic that has shaped far too much of American technological development in recent decades. It is a logic that justifies the creation of a wide range of flashy new gadgets but cannot be bothered to examine the most urgent facts about the human condition in our time.

(3) Is it wise to experiment with technological applications likely to produce irreversible effects?

As a general matter, technologies should be judged superior if the consequences of their use are reversible. Some common projections about the outcomes of nanotechnology point to effects that could never be recalled from the environment or from the species with which nano-systems interact. As we scope out the possibilities here, we need to ask: Would particular paths of research and development risk opening Pandora's box? If so, how can present policies help eliminate that menace?

The final question the Committee has asked me to address is probably the one most important for the specifics of the legislation. "How can research on the societal and ethical concerns relating to nanotechnology be integrated into the research and development process?"

A growing number of scientists, scholars, university administrators, and social activists express a vital interest in this topic. Clearly, there is need to initiate systematic studies of the social and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology. We need broad-ranging, detailed, intellectually rigorous inquiries conducted by persons who have no financial or institutional stake that might skew the questions raised or constrain the answers proposed.

Studies of this kind could be launched in a number of ways, including funding truly cross-disciplinary programs in universities to scope out key issues and policy alternatives. But I would not advise you to pass a Nanoethicist Full Employment Act, sponsoring the creation of a new profession. Although the new academic research in this area would be of some value, there is also a tendency for those who conduct research about the ethical dimensions of emerging technology to gravitate toward the more comfortable, even trivial questions involved, avoiding issues that might become a focus of conflict. The professional field of bioethics, for example, (which might become, alas, a model for nanoethics) has a great deal to say about many fascinating things, but people in this profession rarely say "no."

Indeed, there is a tendency for career-conscious social scientists and humanists to become a little too cozy with researchers in science and engineering, telling them exactly what they want to hear (or what scholars think the scientists want to hear). Evidence of this trait appears in what are often trivial excercises in which potentially momentous social upheavals are greeted with arcane, highly scholastic rationalizations. How many theorists of "intellectual property" can dance on the head of a pin?

One way to avoid the drift toward moral and political triviality is to encourage social scientists and philosophers to present their findings in forums in which people from business, the laboratories, environmental organizations, churches, and other groups can join the discussion. It is time to reject the idea there are only a few designated stakeholders that are qualified to evaluate possibilities, manage the risks, and guide technology toward beneficial outcomes.

Examples of technology policy steered by narrowly interested technical elites can be found in America's systems of medicine. For several decades, research and development have produced ever more exotic, high tech treatments that help propel costs of health care to dizzying levels. Following this path, according to the Word Health Organization, the U.S. ranks only 24th the quality of medical care actually delivered to its populace.

For many decades, there has been a tendency in government funded research and development to exclude the participation of those who are the ultimate stakeholders -- the general public. Citizens pay the bills for the work unfolding; they and their children and grandchildren will be the ones to experience the ultimate outcomes, good or bad.

Why not include the public in deliberations about nanotechnology early on in the process rather than after the products reach the market?

In that light, I believe Congress should seek to create ways in which small panels of ordinary, disinterested citizens, selected in much the way that we now choose juries in cases of law, be assembled to examine important societal issues about nanotechnology. The panels would study relevant documents, hear expert testimony from those doing the research, listen to arguments about technical applications and consequences presented by various sides, deliberate on their findings, and write reports offering policy advice.

It is possible that the news media would find these citizens panels a fascinating topic to cover. The active engagement of everyday folks in the shaping of public understanding of emerging issues and controversies in this area could make extremely valuable contributions to the articulation of issues, problems and possible solutions.

To begin, one might ask citizens panels to explore two highly relevant questions.

Will proposed paths for the military application of nanotechnology make us safer or not?

Would projected uses of nanotechnology in industry tend to create jobs or eliminate them?

There is now a lively research program within the National Science Foundation -- Social Dimensions of Engineering, Science, & Technology -- that funds experimental citizens panels of the sort I am describing. I would suggest that Congress build upon these fruitful experiments and specify (perhaps in the present legislation) citizens panels as one way to inform public debate about the societal and ethical dimensions of nanotechnology.

These days we often hear how important it is to be innovative in emerging technical fields. Here is a way that Congress could be truly innovative - creating ways for citizen stakeholders to join in the study and evaluation of new technologies.

*******************

Article 372

First, I'd like to thank the Committee on Science for taking on the task of addressing the societal implications of nanotechnology. This challenging topic may emerge as the most difficult issue facing policymakers over the coming decades.

Humanity's drive to improve our control of the physical world is intrinsic to our species and has been in progress for millennia. A vast international economic and military momentum pushes us toward the ultimate goal of nanotechnology: complete control of the physical structure of matter, all the way down to the atomic level.

Confusion about nanotechnology

Before attempting to address societal issues, we need to clarify which stage of nanotechnology is being examined. Today the word is used in two very different ways:

-Near-term nanotechnology: Industry today uses the term to cover almost any technology significantly smaller than microtechnology, e.g. nanoparticles. These new products will have positive and negative health and environmental effects which should be studied, but their societal effects-both positive and negative- will be modest compared to later stages of the technology. 

-Advanced nanotechnology: Technology enabling broad control at the level of individual atoms: "The essence of nanotechnology is the ability to work at the molecular level...to create large structures with fundamentally new molecular organization." It is this stage of nanotechnology which will have major societal impact, and the remainder of this testimony will focus here.

Molecular manufacturing: the long-term goal

Advanced nanotechnology, known as molecular manufacturing, will give the ability to construct a wide range of large objects inexpensively and with atomic precision. It will take us beyond materials and devices to complex systems of molecular machines, inspired by-but in some ways superior to-those found in nature.

Molecular manufacturing systems can be envisioned as factories operating at the nanometer level, including nanoscale conveyor belts and robotic arms bringing molecular parts together precisely, bonding them to form products with every atom in a precise, designed location.

It is important not to minimize the technical challenge of such a complex systems engineering project. Indeed, new tools must be developed before beginning a direct attack on the problem. Nonetheless, ongoing research is building the needed technology base, and will eventually place enormous payoffs within reach.

These prospects have been known since the first technical publication on the topic in 1981, and substantial thought has been devoted to potential societal implications of molecular manufacturing. Foresight Institute was founded in 1986 to maximize the societal benefits and minimize the problems expected from advanced nanotechnology.

Potential benefits of molecular manufacturing

Gaining molecular-level control over the structure of matter will bring a wide variety of positive applications:

-Medical uses: Molecular machine systems will be able to sense and rearrange patterns of molecules in the human body, providing the tools needed to bring about a state of health, regardless of a disease's cause.

-Environmental applications: Using molecular manufacturing techniques, it will be possible to construct our products with zero chemical pollution, recycling leftover molecules. Environmental restoration could be carried out at the molecular level, detecting and inactivating unwanted chemicals.

-Raising sustainable living standards: Molecular manufacturing will be able to cleanly and inexpensively produce high-quality products using common materials (especially carbon, which is in excess in the atmosphere in the form of carbon dioxide) and solar energy.

-Low cost to access to space: The strong, lightweight materials enabled by molecular manufacturing will greatly lower the cost of access to space and space resources, making their active use affordable for the first time.

These benefits should be attainable though the combined results of (1) a well-funded R&D program, (2) private sector efforts to bring down costs, and (3) public policy aimed at addressing the issues listed below.

Potential negative effects of molecular manufacturing

Powerful technologies bring problems as well as benefits, and advanced nanotechnologies are expected to bring problems of several sorts:

Accidents: Any powerful technology-from fire to biotech-must be controlled to avoid accidents. In the case of molecular manufacturing, rearranging matter at the molecular level can either improve or destroy a system. Molecular machine systems able to build complex objects could build copies of themselves, possibly overdoing this activity from a human point of view, as bacteria do. An approach to the problem: This issue has been examined and a set of safety rules has been drafted for review; these are expected to evolve as we gain more knowledge about safety issues. Implementation will require the cooperation of the private sector, and early endorsement of safety guidelines could ease public concerns about the technology.

Economic disruption: Technological change continually disrupts employment patterns, but molecular manufacturing is expected to accelerate this significantly: once certain specific points of development in this technology are reached, very rapid change can take place. An approach to the problem: Increase workforce flexibility through education and training.

Lack of access: Excessive or incorrect patenting of fundamental machine parts at the nanoscale may reduce commercial competition and make molecular manufacturing products too expensive for many to benefit. An approach to the problem: Increase private sector competition by discouraging patenting of basic molecular machine parts needed by all companies doing molecular manufacturing. Consider using "open source"-style intellectual property protection for publicly-funded R&D so that this work is available to all.

Deliberate abuse/terrorism: Of the potential problems molecular manufacturing may bring, this is regarded as the most serious and most challenging to address. Three main areas of concern have been identified: (1) very rapid construction of conventional weapons, making traditional arms control more difficult, (2) totalitarian control of civilian populations by surveillance using nanoscale sensors, and (3) new weapons made possible by the technology, which can be thought of as "smart" chemical weapons. An approach to the problem: Encourage an open, international R&D program with broad cooperation by the democracies, including a parallel arms control verification project. Improve today's chemical weapons arms control procedures.

Reducing risks from molecular manufacturing

Individuals and organizations with legitimate concerns regarding advanced nanotechnology have suggested delays in development, even moratoria or bans. While these reactions are understandable, this approach was examined over a decade ago and rejected as infeasible. Today, both public and private spending on nanotechnology is broadly international. Expected economic and military advantages are driving a technology race already underway. If law-abiding nations choose to delay nanotechnology development, they will relinquish the lead to others.

Non-U.S. locations have at least three advantages in the nanotechnology race: (1) labor costs for scientists and technologists are usually lower, (2) intellectual property rules are sometimes ignored, and (3) the former "brain drain" of technical talent to the U.S. is slowing and in some cases reversing. The U.S. and other democracies have no natural monopoly in developing this technology, and failure to develop it would amount to unilateral disarmament.

In developing a powerful technology, delay may seem to add safety, but the opposite could be the case for molecular manufacturing. A targeted R&D project today aimed at this goal would need to be large and, therefore, visible and relatively easy to monitor. As time passes, the nanoscale infrastructure improves worldwide, enabling faster development everywhere, including places that are hard to monitor. The safest course may be to create a fast-moving, well-funded, highly-focused project located where it can be closely watched by all interested parties. Estimates are that such a project could reach its goal in 10-15 years.

Specific ethical considerations

A study of ethical implications of advanced nanotechnology would need to address at least these factors:

The different kinds of nanotechnology and their likely windows of impact, A wide spectrum of different scenarios, including ones in which a significant molecular manufacturing R&D project is already in progress elsewhere, The potential consequences of "saying no" to the technology, as well as those of saying yes. These may be unevenly distributed; for example, those in poor countries might be hurt more by a delay-especially of environmental applications-than those in the U.S. In most cases, society does not "say no" or "yes" to a technology, but instead moves forward with appropriate controls. Ethical issues arise in defining the dimensions and consequences of such controls. To date the dialog around nanotechnology has been polarized, with only one viewpoint-near-term nanotechnology-being included in policymaking. A meaningful discussion of ethics and consequences requires us to ensure that a wide variety of opinions are represented in any downstream policy body or Presidential Commission on nanotechnology.

Bottleneck: Lack of feasibility review

While the basics of molecular manufacturing have been in the literature for over a decade, controversy still continues about the technical feasibility of this goal.

We urgently need a basic feasibility review in which molecular manufacturing's proponents and critics can present their technical cases to a group of unbiased physicists for analysis.

If we are in fact on the pathway to building molecular machine systems, with all the benefits and problems that implies, policymakers need to know now in order to respond appropriately as this opportunity approaches.

The United States has a history of technological success in large systems engineering projects-it has been one of our primary strengths. But nanotechnology research is already worldwide, and there is no guarantee that the U.S, an ally, or other democracy will be the first to reach molecular manufacturing, and failure to do so would be militarily disastrous.

Such an ambitious R&D project requires, first, a decision to pursue the goal, and then substantial funding. Both of these are currently blocked by the lack of consensus on the technical feasibility of molecular manufacturing. Until this issue has been put to rest, neither a funded molecular manufacturing R&D project nor effective study of societal implications can be carried out.


*******************

Article 373

This assessment was needed because powerful and unifying concepts of biology are emerging that hold the potential to lead to rapid progress.For example, in the past, cancer research was considered vastly different than heart or brain research. Today, with recent discoveries in molecular and cell biology, we know that biological systems obey common laws and follow similar pathways in both health and disease. Efforts to fully understand these complex molecular events are beyond the reach of any one laboratory or group of investigators. As we begin to decipher the tidal wave of knowledge we have amassed, the scope, the scale, and the complexity of 21 st century science will require us to devise even newer ways to explore biology for the sake of improving health.

Three major themes emerged from these Roadmap meetings. First, we must uncover new pathways to scientific discovery. For example, we must develop a comprehensive understanding of the building blocks of the body's cells and tissues and how complex biological systems operate. Also, structural biology will provide vital information about the proteins that make up the human body. Molecular libraries will give us new tools and targets for effective therapies. Overall, these examples, plus nanotechnology, computational biology and bioinformatics and molecular imaging will provide the foundation upon which new treatments, diagnostics and prevention strategies will emerge.

The second theme that emerged from our consultations is the changing dynamics of the research teams of the future. Because of the complexity and scope of today's scientific problems, traditional "mentor-apprentice" models must be replaced by integrated teams of specialists from numerous disciplines that were considered unrelated in the past. Imaging research, for example, requires cell biologists, computer programmers, radiologists, and physicists to work collaboratively on new diagnostics and treatments.


*******************

Article 374

Emergency Use Authorization

The FDA approval process for drugs, devices, and biological products is the gold standard for the world. Sixty percent of the world's drugs are introduced first in the United States. Research and development pipelines hold the promise of dramatically advanced treatments, thanks to breakthroughs in genomics, proteomics, nanotechnologies, and other biomedical sciences. In the years ahead, we can look forward to more sophisticated, individualized, and effective treatments. Our policies and regulations help ensure that products that get to market are safe and effective. In addition to animal studies, sponsors of new drugs and vaccines typically conduct three phases of clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product. This process can take years, and is procedurally cumbersome.

In preparing for the challenges we face today, we may not always have a desirable amount of time to address the threat presented by agents of bioterrorism. The current FDA approval process is too long to be used during emergency situations. We have some mechanisms in place to get products to market faster, e.g. the accelerated approval mechanism, and expedited review. The animal efficacy rule provides a new avenue for approval for products whose efficacy cannot be tested in human clinical trials. The single patient IND process and the treatment IND process permit access to unapproved products. However, these mechanisms alone are not sufficient in an emergency.


*******************

Article 375

The budget includes an increase in emphasis on the physical sciences. The physical sciences not only spur understanding of the universe, they are the theoretical foundation for a host of new and promising technologies. Physical science research also offers education and training opportunities vital for a technologically advanced society.

The budget also highlights investments in important research conducted by multiple federal agencies in a coordinated fashion. Increasingly, the cutting edge of research is not cleanly confined to a specific science discipline, but spans a variety of disciplines or applications. Well-managed interagency collaboration takes advantage of the vast pool of capabilities represented across the federal government while minimizing new organizational structures. The high-priority multi-agency R&D initiatives for FY2004 are: combating terrorism R&D, network and information technology, nanotechnology, research on molecular life processes, climate change research and technology and education research.

Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) The Office of Science and Technology Policy has primary responsibility in the White House to coordinate interagency research initiatives. The FY2004 request for OSTP is $7,027,000. This figure includes funding not previously reflected in OSTP's budget for rent and security costs associated with our relocation from the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. It also includes increases associated with responsibilities this office has in the area of National Security Emergency Preparedness communications that have received new emphasis. Total new funding in these categories represents $1,542,000 of our FY2004 request. For purposes of comparison, if you back out the new funding not previously required, OSTP's FY2004 request would represent less than a 2.2% increase over FY2003 levels for the core OSTP mission.



*******************

Article 376

We have been steadily increasing stipend levels from a low of $15,000 in 1999, and it's working. Applications for graduate fellowships increased by 19 percent between 2001 and 2002. This year, we are requesting an increase to $30,000. And, we will also increase the number of fellowships.

Opportunities to advance knowledge have never been greater than they are today. NSF invests in emerging areas of research that hold exceptional potential to strengthen U.S. world leadership in areas of global economic and social importance. This year, we are requesting funding for six of these priority areas: biocomplexity, information technology, nanoscale science and engineering, mathematical sciences, human and social dynamics, and the 21St century workforce.

The budget includes a $100 million dollar request for research in Biocomplexity in the Environment. This investment will continue support for microbial genome sequencing and the ecology of infectious diseases, two areas that are of vital importance to the nation's anti terrorism efforts. Research that charts the interactions among physical, human, and other living systems, will improve our ability to understand and manage our environment. The development of new technologies and tools rounds out this investment. preparing scientists and engineers capable of meeting the challenges of the 21st century; attracting more U.S. students to science and engineering fields; and broadening participation in science and engineering. We will fund Integrative Institutional Collaborations that bring together and integrate NSF educational activities that work - the Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation (LSAMP) program, Graduate Teaching Fellowships in K-12 Education (GK-12), the Integrative Graduate Education Research Traineeships (IGERT) program, Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU), and Centers of Research Excellence in Science and Technology (CREST) program, for example.


*******************

Article 377

This assessment was needed because powerful and unifying concepts of biology are emerging that hold the potential to lead to rapid progress.For example, in the past, cancer research was considered vastly different than heart or brain research. Today, with recent discoveries in molecular and cell biology, we know that biological systems obey common laws and follow similar pathways in both health and disease. Efforts to fully understand these complex molecular events are beyond the reach of any one laboratory or group of investigators. As we begin to decipher the tidal wave of knowledge we have amassed, the scope, the scale, and the complexity of 21 st century science will require us to devise even newer ways to explore biology for the sake of improving health.

Three major themes emerged from these Roadmap meetings. First, we must uncover new pathways to scientific discovery. For example, we must develop a comprehensive understanding of the building blocks of the body's cells and tissues and how complex biological systems operate. Also, structural biology will provide vital information about the proteins that make up the human body. Molecular libraries will give us new tools and targets for effective therapies. Overall, these examples, plus nanotechnology, computational biology and bioinformatics and molecular imaging will provide the foundation upon which new treatments, diagnostics and prevention strategies will emerge.

The second theme that emerged from our consultations is the changing dynamics of the research teams of the future. Because of the complexity and scope of today's scientific problems, traditional "mentor-apprentice" models must be replaced by integrated teams of specialists from numerous disciplines that were considered unrelated in the past. Imaging research, for example, requires cell biologists, computer programmers, radiologists, and physicists to work collaboratively on new diagnostics and treatments.


*******************

Article 378

How are we going to exploit them? Well, first, we're going to use novel approaches. The genome is the blueprint of life. It is the parts list. Now we're going to understand every part, every part of the building blocks of biology. But more importantly, we're going to start to understand how to interact with each other and all how these molecules are organized in pathways and how they're controlled.

To do that, we're going to have to have a renewed focus on innovative technologies. You have heard about bioinformatics, but we need to focus on nanotechnology, molecular libraries and completely new research methodologies. And I am going to give you just one example of that.

This is a discovery called RNA interference. This phenomenon of RNA interference was only discovered three, four years ago. And what it is is absolutely fascinating because Dr. Andrew Fire at Carnegie found that by using very small, very specific strands of double-strand RNA, he could essentially stop the function of particular genes or gene products.


*******************

Article 379

Mr. Chairman, I'll close right there and I will look forward to questions from you or from the committee.

SEN. ROBERTS: General, thank you very much and thank you for your emphasis and stressing the importance of nanotechnology particularly in regards to consequence management. I know there are several nanotechnology solutions around all of the services that they can utilize. We just happen to have a very fine organization in Kansas called NanoScale Technologies in Manhattan. Now I want everybody to know that I didn't write your speech and you're not writing mine but we may want to work on that. But, at any rate, the Marine Corps is working on specific reactive nanoparticles to neutralize any anthrax stimulants and we look forward to that technology and I couldn't pass that up. You gave me a softball so I decided to respond.

GEN. LYLES: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

SEN. ROBERTS: Senator Reed -- I'm sorry.

Admiral Dyer, we don't want to leave the Navy out.

ADM. JOSEPH W. DYER: Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Senator Reed, distinguished members, it's a pleasure to be here with you today. Moving technology quickly from a scientist's bench to the sailors and marines that fight our wars and support our country is a most important undertaking and I would offer up the sensor resolution and the weapons delivery accuracy that you're seeing played out real time, right now and over this last year or so as an example of our success.

I'm the commander of the Naval Air Systems Command, the senior flag officer in the Navy Material community and I represent today the Naval Sea Systems Command, the Navy Office of Research and others. We recognize that a long term, stable and sustained investment is necessary to transition S&T to R&D. We are committed to accelerating and validating that investment via experimentation. The thermobaric weapon much in the news over the last few years and capable of taking out inhabitants deep within caves or bunkers is an example of a technology that has really been in development for over 30 years. Quickly displayed to the battlefield it, nevertheless, represents work that started 30 years ago on synthetic, organic chemistry and reflects that many times when you step out in R&D you don't know what path it's going to lead but contributing to the body of knowledge and especially the Defense knowledge is important to us.

The Navy's S&T investment has increased via the FY '04 budget submission some $1.45 billion over the FYDP and includes such things as the Navy UCAV, our unmanned combat aerial vehicle, supersonic cruise missiles, down through things like the Coast Guard vessel tracking system that helps to protect and monitor our harbors. We're also gratified by the subcommittee's interest in test and evaluation and the Navy is a strong supporter of the Defense Test Research Management Center and we're working with the undersecretary of Defense AT&L to establish that office.

I will shorten my remarks on transformation because you've heard a lot about medical and nanotechnology and materials and autonomous vehicle from my fellow briefers this morning but these are exciting technologies and it is an exciting time. We view S&T within two contexts. One is a timeline and the other is a philosophical organization piece.


*******************

Article 380

What is significant about Phase I of the Task Force is not the specific technologies--but the fact that when the Department needed new capabilities, the continued investment in technology development over the past decades had put technologies "in the cupboard" when needed. I think this is a very important point for technology and transformation. Good technology development is largely achieved through long-term, stable investment in technologies. Not every technology needs to be transitioned immediately. The technologies can be developed and stored in a near ready state until needed. But without the continued stable long-term investment, the "cupboard could be bare." The FY04 President's Budget does focus on transformation technologies. But it also maintains long-term technology based investment in such capability areas as materials and nanotechnology, electronics, sensors, and so forth. The balance has been, and remains important.

The Task Force met only periodically throughout the Spring and early summer of 2002--but began to accelerate again when the national focus expanded to weapons of mass destruction. During Phase H of the DoD Combating Terrorism Task Force, the focus has been on technologies to detect and neutralize chemical and biological agents. The Task Force has worked primarily with both the Central Command and Special Operations Command. Specific details are still classified, but may be provided in an appropriate forum.


*******************

Article 381

What is significant about Phase I of the Task Force is not the specific technologies--but the fact that when the Department needed new capabilities, the continued investment in technology development over the past decades had put technologies "in the cupboard" when needed. I think this is a very important point for technology and transformation. Good technology development is largely achieved through long-term, stable investment in technologies. Not every technology needs to be transitioned immediately. The technologies can be developed and stored in a near ready state until needed. But without the continued stable long-term investment, the "cupboard could be bare." The FY04 President's Budget does focus on transformation technologies.

But it also maintains long-term technology based investment in such capability areas as materials and nanotechnology, electronics, sensors, and so forth. The balance has been, and remains important.

The Task Force met only periodically throughout the Spring and early summer of 2002--but began to accelerate again when the national focus expanded to weapons of mass destruction. During Phase II of the DoD Combating Terrorism Task Force, the focus has been on technologies to detect and neutralize chemical and biological agents. The Task Force has worked primarily with both the Central Command and Special Operations Command. Specific details are still classified, but may be provided in an appropriate forum.


*******************

Article 382

Army Transformation is multi-faceted. Comprising many of those facets are the numerous science and technology efforts being pursued across our Army, in collaboration with academia and industry. Those efforts do not stop at our shores. We are working closely with our allies on projects for mutual benefit. From sensors to simulators, from bullets to batteries, from ammo to armor, Army Transformation is being accelerated through integrated efforts, creating invaluable synergy to ensure we provide our nation a dominant land force capability as well as support our homeland defense. 

Out of the lab and into the hands of our soldiers is the number one priority of our S&T work. Faster is better. We are reaching out and connecting with experts in fields that a few years ago might not have been associated with the United States Army. For example, we approached Hollywood, the game and entertainment industry a few years ago, to create a center where simulation would really be "outside the box." Another great example is the Institute for Soldier Nanotechnology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where we are researching a wide range of possibilities, from climate control clothing to biomedical monitoring.

It would take several books to cover all we are doing in S&T and expect to do in the future. Therefore, it becomes practical to focus on three areas for discussion at this time - Efforts, Infrastructure and People. First, we will define some of the critical efforts that are key to Army Transformation - to the Objective Force, and within that, the Future Combat System (FCS). Secondly, we will lay out the extraordinary capabilities that reside in our S&T infrastructure, which includes our inhouse laboratories and our research, development and engineering centers. The third area that significantly impacts all areas is the people arena, as well as how we organize our people.

+++++++++++++++++++

Our Army laboratories have developed an in depth capability to conduct research in a variety of specialized areas. Many are world class.

Most Army laboratories have a very strong modeling and simulation capability within their facilities for virtual design, development and testing as part of our efforts to decrease the time between laboratory research and fielding. For example, the Tank-Automotive Research Development and Engineering Center (RDEC) operates a 360 degree immersive collaborative virtual environment (CAVE) for design, development and testing of automotive systems. In conjunction with the CAVE, the RDEC developed the Power Wall, a single screen 3-D, one to one scale analysis tool. Both tools can be linked across multiple sites and have generated interest from major contractors associated with FCS. The Army Research Laboratory has the Zahl Physical Sciences Laboratory. This laboratory contains a 6,400 square foot clean room used for chip development and small-scale manufacturing as well as facilities for nanotechnology, Infrared and Wide Bandgap Technology research. At the Engineering Research and Development Center (ERDC) in Vicksburg, MS, the Army Corps of Engineers operates the Survey and Global Positioning System Laboratory.

This facility is used to develop and test survey techniques and equipment for use in positioning and navigation, and, in conjunction with other systems, for obtaining high-accuracy terrain and navigation channel elevation data. The Army also maintains one of its two DoD High Performance Computing Major Shared Resource Centers at ERDC. This 55,000 square foot facility includes multiple, state-of-the-art High Performance Computing Systems, which provide some of the most powerful scientific and engineering computing capability in DoD. The U.S. Army Medical Research Institute for Chemical Defense is the DoD lead laboratory for development of medical countermeasures against chemical warfare agents and for training personnel in the medical management of chemical casualties. The Institute's facilities support chemical casualty care training, physiology, drug assessment, pathophysiology, pharmacology, analytical chemistry, neurotoxicology, veterinary surgery, chemical safety/surety, medical maintenance, information and resource management, logistics support and quality assurance. The Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases maintains containment laboratories that are a unique national and international resource for the safe study of high-hazard disease agents. This lab was instrumental in the recent anthrax investigation.

+++++++++++++++++++

Army is committed to a significant outreach program toward institutions of higher learning and, in particular, to an outreach program towards Historically Black Colleges and Universities/Minority Institutions (HBCU/MI). These institutions of higher learning form the nucleus of the next generation of scientists and engineers for our country and for the Army. In FY 2002, the Army sent over $296 Million in funding to colleges and universities. Of the $296 Million, the Army awarded over $35 Million to HBCU/MI in FY02.

The Army is taking extensive advantage of the research capabilities associated with our universities. One of the ways we do this is through University Affiliated Research Centers (UARC). UARCs provide or maintain essential engineering, research, and/or development capabilities through DoD contracts awarded under the authority of 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)(3)(B). Currently, the Army maintains three UARCs. They are: the Institute for Advanced Technology at the University of Texas at Austin, the Institute for Creative Technology at the University of Southern California, and the Institute for Soldier Nanotechnology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. We are currently in the process of soliciting for a fourth UARC to be known as the Institute for Collaborative Biotechnology.

There are several notable examples of partnerships that the Army has with both institutions of higher education and HBCU/MIs, one of which is the Army High Performance Computing Research Center (AHPCRC) located at the University of Minnesota. University researchers use stateof- the-art computers to solve real world problems for the Army. Specific examples include work in computational solid mechanics to model ballistic armor perforation of a layered ceramic target and computational aerodynamics dealing with the airflow past advanced parachute designs.


*******************

Article 383

BREAKTHROUGH TECHNOLOGIES

In recent years, we have all come to appreciate the success of unmanned vehicles. We hear over and over again the tremendous operational advantages that systems such as Predator and Global Hawk are bringing to warfighters from all Services. Over the first two decades of the 21st Century, advances in micro unmanned air vehicles will provide significant additional capabilities to our Armed Forces. Micro air vehicles utilize advances in microscale aerodynamics, electronic miniaturization, munitions, and propulsion to package sensory and weapons payloads into highly reliable, on-demand systems. These systems will provide unprecedented levels of situational awareness in the most severe threat environments. Whether we are operating in urban environments, sensing bio-chemical dispersion through the atmosphere, or looking over the next hill, our troops will have the awareness needed to fight and survive. These systems will provide the persistent intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance in high threat environments needed by our troops on the ground and our airmen in the air. When called for, swarms of these vehicles will cooperate together to generate both lethal and nonlethal effects.

In the next 50 years, advancements in nanotechnology will provide the greatest change in how man operates since the invention of powered flight itself. Nanotechnology is a science and a series of disciplines that works at the atomic and molecular level to create structures, materials, and devices through improved molecular organization. By working with elements at the level of nanometer scale, we have access to the building blocks of nature. This will fundamentally change the way materials and devices will be produced in the future. The ability to synthesize nanoscale building blocks with precisely controlled size and composition and to then assemble them into larger structures with unique properties and functions will revolutionize segments of the materials and device industry. The benefits that nanostructuring can bring include lighter, stronger, and programmable materials; reductions in life cycle costs through lower failure rates; innovative devices based on new principles and architectures; nanosensors and nanoprocessors; and use of molecular/cluster manufacturing, which takes advantage of assembly at the nanoscale level for a given purpose.

Another significant breakthrough technology that will change the way we develop systems is our work in biotechnology. Biology has developed unique materials and processes that may be exploited in non-biological systems. We are studying the fundamental science necessary to incorporate biological components and organisms into Air Force systems. For example, in biomemetics, we research the adaptation of natural biological sensor in reptiles. The natural infrared sensors in reptiles do not need to be cooled. We hope to adapt this biological process to Air Force sensor applications that normally require cryogenic cooling.


*******************

Article 384

One other new technology area that I think is really on the cutting edge and will actually dramatically change lots of things that we do in the future, is one mentioned by General Kern.

It's the future application of nanotechnology. It will provide the greatest change in how a man operates, since we will be operating at the atomic and molecular level to create structures, materials and devices never thought of before.

We are looking at putting monies into nanotechnology and technology programs, working closely with the other services and other agencies, because of the tremendous benefits we will get from nanotechnology.

As an example, an order of magnitude increase in the strength of materials. Two-fold improvement in material thermal properties. A three-fold reduction in power consumption. And an order of magnitude increase in the energy in munitions and propellants.

Nanotechnology is going to revolutionize the way we do everything in our activities in science and technology.

My last strategy of our three-pronged strategy is the one I consider to be the most important and the most severe. And that is to attract and nurture a world-class science and technology work force.


*******************

Article 385

Two comprehensive energy bills comparable in scope to H.R. 4 were introduced in the Senate and referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources during the 1st Session of the 107th Congress. S. 388, the National Energy Security Act of 2001, was introduced by Senator Murkowski on February 26, 2001; and S. 597, the Comprehensive and Balanced Energy Policy Act of 2001, was introduced by Senator Bingaman on March 22, 2001. In addition, numerous bills dealing with various energy policy issues were referred to the Committee, and were considered by the Committee. These bills included:

G7f S. 71, the Hydroelectric Licensing Process Improvement Act of 2001;

G7f S. 90, the Department of Energy Nanoscale Science and Engineering Research Act;

G7f S. 95, the Federal Energy Bank Act;

G7f S. 193, the Department of Energy Advanced Scientific Computing Act;

G7f S. 242, the Department of Energy University Nuclear Science and Engineering Act;

G7f S. 259, the National Laboratories Partnership Improvement Act of 2001;

G7f S. 352, the Energy Emergency Response Act of 2001;


*******************

Article 386

WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   BAKER, JAMES R., JR. (Director, Center for Biologic Nanotechnology, University of Michigan)
   READ, J. LEIGHTON (General Partner, Alloy Ventures; representing Biotechnology Industry Organization)
   FRIEDMAN, MICHAEL A. (Dr.) (Chief Medical Officer, Biomedical Preparedness, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America)
   NOBLE, GARY (Dr.) (Vice President, Medical and Public Health Affairs, Johnson & Johnson; representing Advanced Medical Technology Association)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Review of potential Project BioShield challenges; support for Project BioShield Act; merits of Project BioShield research and development provisions; views of pharmaceutical industry on Project BioShield Act, with recommendations; importance of expanded medical technologies for drug, vaccine, and biologic products delivery and efficiency of use.


*******************

Article 387

I am Dr. James Baker, a physician who is the Ruth Dow Doan Professor of Internal Medicine and Director of the Center for Biologic Nanotechnology at the University of Michigan. I am Director of Research at our institution's Bioterrorism Initiative, and Division Chief of Allergy and Clinical Immunology in the Medical School. I am a 14-year veteran of service in the U.S. Army, 12 of it on active duty, including service during Desert Storm. I have participated in and chaired committees in NIAID reviewing research into defense against biologic weapons. With support from the Defense Advance Research Projects Agency, the National Institutes of Health and NASA, my center is applying these technologies to a number of problems in biology including infectious disease therapy and microbial decontamination. I am also the CSO of two startup companies, one of which, NanoBio Corporation, is dedicated to commercializing new technologies for antimicrobial applications and decontamination. I have extensively studied the problems involved in preventing illness as a result of bio-terrorism or bio-warfare, and I am pleased to have been invited to testify before the committee this morning. 


*******************

Article 388

The Administration recognizes that no other significant commercial market exists for many of these products that will be needed to protect our military and civilian population. This authority will enable the government to purchase vaccines and other therapies provided experts believe that the countermeasures can be made safe and effective. The Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of Homeland Security will collaborate in identifying these critical medical countermeasures, by evaluating likely threats, new opportunities in biomedical research and development, and other public health considerations. Emergency Use Authorization

The FDA approval process for drugs, devices, and biological products is the gold standard for the world. Sixty percent of the world's drugs are introduced first in the United States. Research and development pipelines hold the promise of dramatically advanced treatments, thanks to breakthroughs in genomics, proteomics, nanotechnologies, and other biomedical sciences. In the years ahead, we can look forward to more sophisticated, individualized, and effective treatments. Our policies and regulations help ensure that products that get to market are safe and effective. In addition to animal studies, sponsors of new drugs and vaccines typically conduct three phases of clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product. This process can take years, and is procedurally cumbersome. Only a small percentage of all products tested are found to be safe and effective and allowed to come to market.

In preparing for the challenges we face today, we may not always have sufficient time when addressing the threat presented by agents of bioterrorism. The current FDA approval process is too long to be used during emergency situations. We have some mechanisms in place to get products to market faster, e.g. the accelerated approval mechanism, and expedited review. The animal efficacy rule provides a new avenue for approval for products whose efficacy cannot be tested in human clinical trials. The single patient IND process and the treatment IND process permit access to unapproved products. However, these mechanisms alone are not sufficient in an emergency.


*******************

Article 389

Emergency Use Authorization

The FDA approval process for drugs, devices, and biological products is the gold standard for the world. Sixty percent of the world's drugs are introduced first in the United States. Research and development pipelines hold the promise of dramatically advanced treatments, thanks to breakthroughs in genomics, proteomics, nanotechnologies, and other biomedical sciences. In the years ahead, we can look forward to more sophisticated, individualized, and effective treatments. Our policies and regulations help ensure that products that get to market are safe and effective. In addition to animal studies, sponsors of new drugs and vaccines typically conduct three phases of clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product. This process can take years, and is procedurally cumbersome. Only a small percentage of all products tested are found to be safe and effective and allowed to come to market.



*******************

Article 390

I am Dr. James Baker, a physician who is the Ruth Dow Doan Professor of Internal Medicine and Director of the Center for Biologic Nanotechnology at the University of Michigan. I am Director of Research at our institution's Bioterrorism Initiative, and Division Chief of Allergy and Clinical Immunology in the Medical School. I am a 14-year veteran of service in the U.S. Army, 12 of it on active duty, including service during Desert Storm. I have participated in and chaired committees in NIAID reviewing research into defense against biologic weapons. With support from the Defense Advance Research Projects Agency, the National Institutes of Health and NASA, my center is applying these technologies to a number of problems in biology including infectious disease therapy and microbial decontamination. I am also the CSO of two startup companies, one of which, NanoBio Corporation, is dedicated to commercializing new technologies for antimicrobial applications and decontamination. I have extensively studied the problems involved in preventing illness as a result of bio-terrorism or bio-warfare, and I am pleased to have been invited to testify before the committee this morning. 


*******************

Article 391

Recently, the DoD Combating Terrorism Technology Task Force's focus has been on technologies to detect and "neutralize"chemical and biological agents. The Task Force has worked primarily with the United States Central Command and Special Operations Command. Specific details are still classified, but may be provided in an appropriate forum.

The continued investment in science and technology over the past decades enabled the Department's development of these needed new capabilities. I believe this is very important for developing technology and transformation. Good technology development is largely achieved through long-term, stable investment in science and technology. Not every technology needs to be transitioned immediately but a strong S&T base is critical. The FY04 President's Budget does focus on transformation technologies. But it also maintains long-term technology based investment in such capability areas as materials and nanotechnology, electronics, sensors, and so forth. The balance has been, and remains important.

In closing, the science and technology program and the objective of Secretary Rumsfeld to provide transformational capabilities to the DoD are absolutely intertwined. I have mentioned only a few examples within the DoD S&T program. I believe the Department of Defense successes in technology and transformation are significant, and I appreciate the opportunity to come before you today to tell you about them. Thank you.


*******************

Article 392

BASIC RESEARCH PROGRAM

The Army Basic Research program produces new understanding to enable revolutionary advances and paradigm shifts in technology to enable the Army's Transformation goals. This program invests in world-class expertise (government, academia and industry) and state of the art equipment to explore fundamental phenomena and exploit scientific discovery. These investments are key to the Army's ability to win the race for speed and precision. Today, Global Positioning Systems, night vision devices, and precision- guided munitions are essential to all our operations. These capabilities can be traced to sustained basic research investments in decades past. The Army's Basic Research program has three components: World class university-based research to support single investigators and focused centers to enable paradigm shifting capabilities such as nanotechnology for the soldier; research at centers that advance enduring needs in the areas of rotorcraft and automated technologies; and industry led centers focused on robotics, power and energy, communication networks, display technologies, and decision aids. It exploits advances in emerging, high payoff technologies such as nanotechnology, biotechnology, robotics, immersive environments, directed energy, and very high performance computing

conclusion

The Army must have a diverse S&T portfolio that is responsive to current and future warfighter needs. The S&T community seeks technological solutions that can be demonstrated in the near- term, explores the feasibility of new concepts for the midterm, and explores the imaginable for an uncertain far-term future. Since the Army vision was announced in October 1999, the Army S&T effort has been reshaped, refocused, and reinforced to speed the development of those critical technologies essential to transform the Army into the objective force. The Army S&T community has accepted the technical challenges embraced in the Army Vision. We have committed our intellectual resources--our people--and our facilities and funding to maintain the momentum of the Army's Transformation!


*******************

Article 393

BREAKTHROUGH TECHNOLOGIES

In recent years, we have all come to appreciate the success of unmanned vehicles. We hear over and over again the tremendous operational advantages that systems such as Predator and Global Hawk are bringing to warfighters from all Services. Over the first two decades of the 21st Century, advances in micro unmanned air vehicles will provide significant additional capabilities to our Armed Forces. Micro air vehicles utilize advances in microscale aerodynamics, electronic miniaturization, munitions, and propulsion to package sensory and weapons payloads into highly reliable, on-demand systems. These systems will provide unprecedented levels of situational awareness in the most severe threat environments. Whether we are operating in urban environments, sensing bio-chemical dispersion through the atmosphere, or looking over the next hill, our troops will have the awareness needed to fight and survive. These systems will provide the persistent intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance in high threat environments needed by our troops on the ground and our airmen in the air. When called for, swarms of these vehicles will cooperate together to generate both lethal and nonlethal effects.

In the next 50 years, advancements in nanotechnology will provide the greatest change in how man operates since the invention of powered flight itself. Nanotechnology is a science and a series of disciplines that works at the atomic and molecular level to create structures, materials, and devices through improved molecular organization. By working with elements at the level of nanometer scale, we have access to the building blocks of nature. This will fundamentally change the way materials and devices will be produced in the future. The ability to synthesize nanoscale building blocks with precisely controlled size and composition and to then assemble them into larger structures with unique properties and functions will revolutionize segments of the materials and device industry. The benefits that nanostructuring can bring include lighter, stronger, and programmable materials; reductions in life cycle costs through lower failure rates; innovative devices based on new principles and architectures; nanosensors and nanoprocessors; and use of molecular/cluster manufacturing, which takes advantage of assembly at the nanoscale level for a given purpose.

Another significant breakthrough technology that will change the way we develop systems is our work in biotechnology. Biology has developed unique materials and processes that may be exploited in non-biological systems. We are studying the fundamental science necessary to incorporate biological components and organisms into Air Force systems. For example, in biomemetics, we research the adaptation of natural biological sensor in reptiles. The natural infrared sensors in reptiles do not need to be cooled. We hope to adapt this biological process to Air Force sensor applications that normally require cryogenic cooling. TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION



*******************

Article 394

The combat capabilities that overwhelmed the Iraqi army in Operation Desert Storm in 1991 were the result of technology investments made in the 1950s and '60s. That matured into development and acquisition programs in the '70s and '80s. Advances in semiconductor technology and information technology in the '70s and '80s are the heart of the weapons systems and command and control that are the focus of the precision-strike capabilities being used in Iraq this very today.

Basic and applied research in areas such as nanotechnologies, robotics, wide band-gap semiconductors, and the biological revolution will lead to further radar and weapons systems in the future and to other capabilities for our armed forces that are yet to be -- that are as yet unforeseen.

For the past two decades, both before and after the end of the Cold War, previous administrations and the Congress have faced the issues raised in Secretary Weinberger's 1983 statement regarding the Defense Science and Technology Program. These issues confront the Bush administration and the Congress as of today.


*******************

Article 395

WITNESSES:

TOMMY THOMPSON, HHS SECRETARY
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI, DIRECTOR, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY AND, INFECTIOUS DISEASES, NIH
MR. LEIGHTON READ, MD, GENERAL PARTNER, ALLOY VENTURES
MR. MICHAEL FRIEDMAN, MD, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER FOR BIOMEDICAL PREPAREDNESS
MR. JAMES BAKER, JR., RUTH DOW DOAN PROFESSOR, CENTER FOR BIOLOGICAL NANOTECHNOLOGY
MR. GARY NOBLE, MD, VICE PRESIDENT OF MEDICAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS, JOHNSON & JOHNSON


*******************

Article 396

The President's request includes a total of $340.8 million for the NIST Laboratories to strengthen the national measurements and standards infrastructure that enables innovation and economic growth. The request will enable NIST to expand its work in the areas of nanotechnology, advanced information technology, and health care diagnostics - all areas with broad economic impact.

NIST will expand its program in nanotechnology, the so-called "tiny revolution" in technology, (total request of $62.0 million). Nearly all industrial sectors plan to exploit this emerging technology, and most of these plans call for appropriately scaled measurements and standards, which is NIST's specialty. NIST closely coordinates its nanotechnology work with other Federal agencies through the President's National Nanotechnology Initiative, or NNI. NIST appropriately has the lead in providing the measurements and standards infrastructure for the NNI.

The request also includes $7.3 million to build on NIST's world- class expertise in quantum computing and communications. This effort, with teams led by NIST's two Nobel laureates, is developing revolutionary means of making calculations much more quickly than traditional electronic computers will ever be able to do. NIST scientists already have made the working elements of quantum computers based on individual atoms.


*******************

Article 397

STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Support for H.R. 766, citing importance of Federal support for nanotechnology R&D; examination of advances in nanoscience research; explanation of nanotechnology potential role in information technology advancements; views on Federal nanotechnology research priorities; support for proposed interagency nanoscience research initiative; importance of nanoscience R&D.
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   Small scale science and technology dev interagency program estab


*******************

Article 398

It's a pleasure to welcome everyone here this morning, and I want to give a special welcome to Richard Russell, formerly the deputy chief of staff of this Committee, who is returning to his old precincts. I'm sure he will be able to make it through his testimony despite the pangs of nostalgia.

I'm going to keep my remarks this morning brief because nanotechnology is a subject on which there is already broad agreement - on this dais, at the witness table, and indeed in the Congress and country at large. We all understand that nanotechnology can be a key to future economic prosperity and might improve our lives and that the federal government needs to play a role in making that so. 

With that in mind, I introduced H.R. 766 with Mr. Honda, and with the senior Members of this Committee on both sides of the aisle as cosponsors. Our plan is to have another hearing on the subject on April 9 - that hearing focusing exclusively on societal consequences - and then report out the bill in late April or early May. It should be able to move to the House floor swiftly after that. And as the welcome presence today of Senators Wyden and Allen indicates, the Senate is extremely interested in this matter. We worked successfully with Senators Allen and Wyden on a wide range of issues last Congress, including cybersecurity, and I'm pleased that our partnership continues.

The hallmarks of H.R. 766 are three-fold. It aims to increase interdisciplinary research, interagency coordination and research on societal consequences.

It builds on the excellent proposed budgets that have been put forward by the Administration for nanotechnology. I think it's safe to say that the bill is pretty non-controversial. It's been endorsed by leading industry groups. I know the Administration has some concerns about the advisory committee language, and I have no doubt that those can be worked out.

The bill is designed to usher in a day when nanotechnology is so routine that none of us feel compelled to make the tiresome puns that now always attend discussions of nano. I want to see nano become so much a part of daily life, that discussions of it are nothing more than, well, small talk. I'm sure we all look forward to that day.


*******************

Article 399

Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, thank you for this opportunity to appear before you today to present the Administration's plans for the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) and the Administration's views on H.R. 766, The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003.

The Administration shares this Committee's belief in the importance of federal support for nanotechnology R&D and coordination of the research efforts that are funded. In many ways, I am preaching to the choir and vice versa. Our differences are minor and are mostly reflected in the slightly different paths we use to reach our goals. 

Nanotechnology is the ability to engineer at atomic, molecular or supramolecular levels in the length scale of approximately 1 to 100 nanometers- about a thousandth of a millionth of a meter. To provide some perspective, this is approximately 1/100,000 the diameter of the average human hair. Nanoscale science and engineering are not just additional steps towards miniaturization. Nanoscale systems exhibit physical and chemical properties quite different from those found at the micro- and macro-scale. Take carbon, for example. We are familiar with carbon in many forms-coal, diamond, etc. But when a sheet of elemental carbon, a single atom thick, is rolled into a tube, this form of carbon takes on totally unique and unforeseen properties. For example, an incredibly small shift-on the length scale of a single atom-changes the properties of the tube from conducting to semiconducting, making carbon nanotubes (CNTs) an ideal candidate for a microelectronic material. Pushing or pulling on the tube also changes the electrical properties, making CNTs ideal candidates for sensors. Other materials exhibit similarly unexpected properties at the nanoscale.

Commercialization of nanotechnology is expected to lead to new products and applications in materials and manufacturing, electronics, medicine and healthcare, environment, energy, chemicals, biotechnology, agriculture, information technology, transportation, national security, and other areas. Nanotechnology will likely have a broad and fundamental impact on many sectors of the economy.

New nanotechnology innovations are being made on a regular basis. Just this week it was announced that researchers at the University of Michigan are using nanoprobes to image chemical activity inside living cells. The 20 nm diameter nanoprobes are small enough to fit inside a cell without affecting the cell's normal functions. Sensor molecules inside the nanoprobes emit light when select ions bind to the sensor. This information will help scientists unravel the complicated metabolic processes in living cells.

Scientists from Rice University have attached amino groups to single-walled carbon nanotubes. These amino groups can be used to bond the nanotubes to other polymers, or to form a 'fabric' of nanotubes. This is a crucial step towards manufacturing a new generation of materials that are stronger, lighter, and potentially self-sensing.

Nanotechnology is still at a very early stage of development. The role of Federal R&D funding in this area is to provide the fundamental research underpinnings upon which future nanoscale technologies will be based. Numerous challenges must be addressed before the envisioned promise of these technologies can be reached. Overcoming these challenges will require fundamental research to improve our basic understanding in several fields of science and engineering, as well as novel approaches toward synthesis, analysis and manufacturing of nanotechnology-based products. We face a very real challenge developing new instruments that enable accurate, nanoscale-level measurement and manipulation.

These challenges also present opportunities:

-the opportunity to engage in interdisciplinary work, between agencies, that bridge traditional delineations between disciplines; -the opportunity to reinvigorate chemistry and physics, bringing these disciplines into the mechanistic length scales that underlie the unique properties of nanoscale objects and, not coincidentally, the functioning of biological systems; and -opportunities to develop new engineering systems and instrumentation that can be used to manipulate and measure properties of nanoscale structures, including biological systems that were, just a short time ago, beyond our means.

As such, nanotechnology is creating a natural domain of interdisciplinary interactions. It is igniting a review of college curricula and creating new educational paradigms. This administration is encouraging these activities through the existing structure of the NNI.

Because of the complexity, cost, and high risk associated with nanotechnology research, the private sector is often unable to assure itself of short-to-medium term returns on R&D investments in this field. Consequently, industry is not likely to undertake the basic research investments necessary to overcome the technical barriers that currently exist. The NNI is a critical link between high-risk, novel research concepts and new technologies that can be developed by industry. This is accomplished by providing funding for fundamental research at colleges and universities as well as at our National laboratories, by creating centers of excellence that bring together diverse populations of scientific domains under one academic umbrella, and by building a network of central user facilities that enable access, by industry as well as academia, to state-of-the-art nanoscale fabrication and analysis facilities. Funding programs are structured to overcome barriers, in both knowledge and facilities, so that America's industries will prosper from our investment in nanotechnology.

The Administration's commitment to furthering nanotechnology research and development has never been stronger. Support for the NNI is evidenced by significant funding increases for this interagency initiative in each of President Bush's proposed budgets. That trend continues this year, with a 10% increase over last year's request for nanotechnology (to $849 million) in the President's FY 2004 budget. In addition, last year the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and OSTP Director Marburger issued a memo to the heads of executive departments and agencies identifying nanoscale science and technology as one of six interagency research and development priorities.

The National Nanotechnology Initiative Federal funding for Nanotechnology is coordinated through the NNI. The NNI is an interagency program that encompasses relevant nanotechnology R&D among the participating Federal agencies. The Federal agencies currently performing nanotechnology research coordinated through the NNI are:

-National Science Foundation

-Department of Defense;

-Department of Energy;

-National Institutes of Health;

-Department of Commerce;

-National Aeronautics and Space Administration;

-Department of Agriculture;

-Environmental Protection Agency;

-Department of Homeland Security; and

-Department of Justice.

Funding for the NNI provides support for a range of activities, which include: basic research, focused efforts directed at answering specific sets of questions of high significance-so- called "Grand Challenges," and building research infrastructure (instrumentation, equipment, facilities) and centers and networks of excellence (larger, centralized facilities intended to provide sites for cooperative and collaborative efforts among distributed networks and groups of researchers at multiple affiliated institutions). Depending on the agency, funding supports mission- oriented research within agencies, research at national laboratories, and research at academic institutions and other research institutes. A portion of the funding is also dedicated to addressing non-technical research problems in a broader context, including societal implications and workforce and training issues.

The research agenda for the ten agencies currently participating in the NNI is coordinated by the Nanoscale Science and Engineering Technology (NSET) Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC). As you know, the NSTC is a cabinet-level interagency body through which interagency science and technology issues are discussed and coordinated. The NSET subcommittee is staffed by representatives of the participating agencies, OSTP, and OMB. It also includes other Federal agencies that do not fund nanotechnology R&D but nevertheless have an interest in these technologies-agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration and the Department of the Treasury. NSET members meet on a monthly basis to measure progress, set priorities, organize workshops, and plan for the coming year.

The current membership of the NSET reflects its origins as an informal working group organized and populated by program officers and researchers within agencies performing or funding nanotechnology R&D. As such, the agency representatives to the NSET have extensive knowledge of and experience with nanoscale R&D. This expertise has been of critical importance to the success of the initiative, providing a necessary link to nanotechnology researchers in industry and academia. However, recognizing that the NNI will increasingly confront policy issues central to its continued success, OSTP has proposed a restructuring of the interagency nanotechnology effort within the NSTC. Under the proposed structure, which was approved by the NSTC's Committee on Technology-to which the current NSET reports- late last year, the current NSET would be reformulated as an interagency working group. In turn, the subcommittee would be reconstituted with membership comprising of higher level agency officials. This new management structure will enable enhanced coordination and priority setting.

The National Nanotechnology Coordination Office (NNCO) assists NSET-participating agencies in their activities, and serves as the secretariat for the NNI. The NNCO, which is funded by contributions from the participating agencies, carries out the objectives established by the NSET members, coordinates and publishes information from workshops sponsored by the NNI, and prepares annual reports on the activities of the NNI. The NNCO also contracts for program reviews to provide feedback on the NNI. It has an annual budget of approximately $1 million. In the past, the Director of the NNCO was a part-time position. Recognizing the key contribution made by the NNCO to the success of a multi-agency effort of the complexity of the NNI, OSTP is in the process of hiring a full-time director to run the NNCO.

The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003 The Administration appreciates the efforts of the Chairman and other members of this committee and others to highlight the importance of nanotechnology science - and to address certain issues through H.R. 766, the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003. We look forward to working with you as the bill moves through the process as our staffs have already begun to discuss some of the key provisions.

In the summer of 2002, the National Research Council (NRC) released the results of their study of the NNI in a report entitled Small Wonders, Endless Frontiers: A Review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative. The report highlighted the strong leadership of the NNI, praised the degree of interagency collaboration, and lauded the early successes of the research programs.

The report also provided a number of recommendations to further strengthen the NNI. One such recommendation was to create an independent Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Advisory Board to provide advice to the NSET on policy, strategy, management, and other issues. The NRC proposed that the board be composed of "leaders from industry and academia with scientific, technical, social science, or research management credentials." H.R. 766, incorporates this recommendation.

The Administration shares a strong belief in the value of independent external advice regarding the NNI. As such, you will be pleased to know that the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST), whose members encompass the range of experience and backgrounds articulated by the NRC in their recommendation, recently took on this responsibility. PCAST will review the NNI on an ongoing basis and provide the President with recommendations to improve the program. As an initial step, at their March 3rd 2003 meeting, PCAST agreed to begin this review with an effort that will assist the NSTC in developing a crisp, compelling, overarching strategic plan, and defining specific "Grand Challenges" to guide the program.

PCAST co-chair Floyd Kvamme will lead this effort, which will be undertaken at the full committee level, although separate task forces will form to address particular sets of issues. PCAST will accomplish its work in concert with the NSTC and the resident expertise within the agencies represented on it. In addition, in accordance with a suggestion from this Committee, PCAST plans to tap leading researchers in nanotechnology to provide PCAST with technical expertise on the state-of-the-art in nanotechnology- forming a "technical task force" that will augment PCAST's expertise.

PCAST's role in reviewing the NNI fulfills the NRC recommendation to form an external advisory committee. As such, the requirement in Section 5 of H.R. 766, the Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003, which mandates the creation of a presidential nanotechnology advisory panel, would duplicate PCAST's efforts and unnecessarily draw resources from the scientific goals of the program. The Administration believes that this provision needs to be stricken from the bill. OSTP will work closely with PCAST to ensure that our mutual goal is met - that is, ensuring that the nation's investment in nanotechnology research and development realizes its full potential.

The Administration's goals and plans for the NNI program, of which I have provided a brief description today, capture almost every element of the legislation we are discussing. The NNI is a relatively new program, and represents a field that is, in many ways, also quite young. Flexibility-to enable us to adapt the program over time and, for example, on the basis of recommendations from PCAST-will be key to the program's continued success. Of particular importance is the flexibility to perform studies and allocate funds as needed to address new research opportunities and emerging priorities. We also have some concerns with some of the specifics in the bill, such as the exact nature of the triennial review by the National Research Council, some of the particulars regarding the National Nanotechnology Research and Development program, and technical matters to ensure that the interagency committee required by the legislation can function effectively without advisory committee status. I appreciate the Committee's willingness to work with us to address these issues, and look forward to continuing to do so.

Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee, I hope that this overview has conveyed this Administration's commitment to nanotechnology and the NNI. OSTP is actively working with the NNCO to implement many of the NRC recommendations-recommendations that are reflected in the legislation under consideration today. We believe that our efforts will improve the program substantially and will enhance our nation's investment in nanotechnology.

*******************

Article 400

Good morning, Chairman Boehlert, Ranking Member Hall, members of the Science Committee. My name is Thomas Theis and I am the Director of Physical Sciences for the IBM Corporation. The IBM Research Division totals over 3000 people in 8 main sites around the world. I have responsibility for IBM's research in the physical sciences. I also was a member of the National Academy of Sciences review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative and participated in the drafting of their report, Small Wonders, Endless Frontiers: A Review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative. 

Thank you for inviting me here today to discuss nanotechnology and H.R. 766, The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003.

IBM supports increasing nanotechnology coordination and expertise within the federal government, and providing adequate funding for nanotechnology research. In particular, we believe that there is a critical need for the federal government to seek additional external nanotechnology expertise and input to guide its research strategy and funding decisions. The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003 will assist in several of these areas.

Nanotechnology is key to the future of information technology. History teaches us that each time man has extended his ability to structure matter, whether it be to shape an ax from rock or a microprocessor from silicon, the benefits are extraordinary and enduring. Nanotech is the next frontier. Research in nanotechnology is driving breakthroughs in materials and all the devices that can be built with new and better materials.

IBM is pursuing a robust research effort in nanotechnology because that research is resulting in better information technology products. (The computer in your office already contains devices with some dimensions best measured in nanometers.) I encourage this Committee to similarly support nanotechnology and to extend the benefits of nanotechnology across society to a range of industries and endeavors.

Without further advances in nanotechnology, improvements in the speed, cost, and energy efficiency of IT hardware must slow. In turn, the economic growth of the IT industry must slow -- along with the associated productivity gains, and the further development of new applications of information technology.

Nanotechnology allows us to characterize and structure new materials with precision at the level of atoms, leading to materials as superior to existing materials as steel was to iron, and iron was to bronze in earlier eras. Nanostructured materials hold the promise of being stronger and lighter than conventional materials. This would have innumerable beneficial impacts from more fuel efficient and safer airplanes and cars, to luggage that can withstand baggage handling at airports! But strength is just one property. Designing materials with atomic precision allows unprecedented control of their electronic, magnetic, optical, and thermal properties - in fact, any property that we want to enhance.

Raw materials constitute an enormous sector of our economy, but the popular imagination is captured by devices - machines that multiply the abilities of body and mind. The history of information technology can be read as a history of miniaturization -- of continuous invention of ever smaller versions of the devices that process, store, and communicate information. The story of information processing goes back to mechanical systems such as those used to tabulate the US census a century ago. These were replaced by electromechanical calculators based on relays. Vacuum tubes were used to build the first stored- program computers a half century ago. The transistor quickly replaced the vacuum tube, and in a historical eye-blink, the discrete transistor was displaced by the monolithic silicon integrated circuit. A similar story of new devices and ever- advancing miniaturization can be told for information storage. Through the history of information technology, smaller has consistently translated into faster, cheaper, and more power efficient, supporting the ongoing explosion of new applications of information technology and the growth of the entire industry.

This relentless advance of information processing and storage technologies has provided consumers with a wide range of products that do more every year for less - computers of course, but also cameras, cell phones, entertainment systems, and automobiles that are better in every way than those of ten years ago. The impact on our society, economy and security has been enormous. However, scientists and engineers believe that we will soon reach the practical limit to miniaturization of devices that operate with today's materials and principles. At the same time, we see no fundamental laws preventing the processing and storage of information by new devices operating at the atomic scale. To prepare for this future, IBM's Research Division has been actively pursuing research on new nanostructured materials, nanoscale devices, and the processes to fabricate these materials and devices

The nano-devices being explored in laboratories around the world do indeed suggest that we still have a way to go on the road to Lilliput. Experimental silicon transistors with a critical dimension, the channel length, as small as six nanometers were fabricated last year. Molecular devices that do away with silicon are being explored for information storage and processing. These may not be ultimately much smaller that the smallest possible silicon transistors, but they may be amenable to fabrication by new chemical-synthetic processes that will dramatically reduce the cost of manufacture of complex IT systems.

It is not possible to say exactly what entirely new products and services will be supported by these continued advances in IT hardware. Right now I can buy a tiny memory card that can hold the text of many books, or hundreds of pictures. With continued advances in nanotechnology, I expect to someday buy a memory card that can hold an audio recording of everything of interest that I have ever heard, the text of everything I have ever read, and all the pictures I have taken in a lifetime. My children will find new and surprising uses for all that information.

Although the economy, particularly the information technology sector, is currently in the doldrums, make no mistake. The rapid pace of technology development is accelerating worldwide. Engineering teams, striving for a competitive edge, are taking greater risks and exploring a bolder range of options. Scientific discoveries that would have languished in the laboratory in years past are being pulled into the product development stream with unprecedented speed. Our country continues to lead the world in information technology, but maintaining this leadership requires continued research investments, particularly in the basic research that feeds this pipeline of innovation. If key scientific advances are made and first exploited outside the US, growth will move off-shore.

In 2002, the National Academy of Sciences published the results of a review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative titled, Small Wonders, Endless Frontiers: A review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative. I would like to note a few of the concerns and recommendations of the Panel.

First, the Panel made a series of recommendations toward a shared goal - to increase the existing interagency coordination and ensure long-term stability of the federal nanotechnology effort. Nanotechnology is inherently interdisciplinary. The scientific challenges and ultimate benefits cross a variety of agencies, funding programs, and constituencies. Yet, in the absence of coordination, research decisions will be formed primarily from the perspective of a single agency or discipline. In the absence of coordination, an agency's nanotechnology strategy is unlikely to be broad in scope or bold in vision. The Review Board recommendations (on advisory committees, strategic plan setting, long-term funding, multi-agency investments, special funding for interagency collaboration, interdisciplinary culture, etc) each can contribute to the coordination and stability necessary to return the maximum benefits from nanotechnology research.

Second , the Panel noted the need for expertise to "identify and champion research opportunities that do not conveniently fit within any single agency's mission." To this end, the Panel recommended that the Office of Science and Technology Policy establish an independent advisory board to provide advice to the multiagnecy Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology (NSET) committee. In my view, the exact reporting structure and composition of this board are not important, as long as the advisory board seeks the advice from "leaders from industry and academia with scientific, technical, social science, or research management credentials." These leaders should have appropriate credentials in the field of nanotechnology. It would be desirable to have some of this expertise reside within the standing membership of the advisory board

Third, the Panel recommended "that the societal implications of nanoscale science and technology become an integral and vital component of the National Nanotechnology Initiative." To grasp some implications of a mature, imagine a world where information technology is truly ubiquitous and dirt cheap, where even trivial human artifacts contain extraordinary complexity and therefore extraordinary ability to store, process and communicate information. These broad capabilities of future information technology are easy to forecast, but their implications for society are still difficult to discern. That is why we should start to study these issues now. We will not be able to anticipate every societal implication, but the rational study of possible implications, and the publication of research results should enable a healthy public discourse. In the final analysis, society must decide on the appropriate applications of any technology. In a democratic society, such decisions should be made under the light of public discourse I urge the Committee to anticipate the societal implications of a rapidly advancing technology, and accompany our research effort with efforts to anticipate and manage those implications.

Finally, the Panel recommended that the National Nanotechnology Initiative "support long-term funding in nanoscale science and technology so that they can achieve their potential and promise." They further noted that "Truly revolutionary ideas will need sustained funding to achieve results and produce important breakthroughs." It is hard to overstate the importance of federal funding for basic research. Each of the critical breakthroughs in nanotechnology has been based on years of sustained federal funding for researchers. The breakthroughs funded by the federal government are the foundation that enables subsequent efforts by the business sector to translate that research into products on the marketplace. Without the federal government underwriting the long-term funding, there will be fewer breakthroughs to translate into products and economic prosperity. Simply put, the research opportunities are enormous and there is no way that IBM or the even the entire IT industry can do the job on its own. Furthermore, federally funded university research is the training ground for the scientists and engineers who work in industry and translate basic research results into products.

In closing, I would like to thank the Committee for the invitation to testify here today. IBM believes that nanotechnology has a big place in its future and in the future of society. We urge the Committee to pass legislation that will assist in the coordination of nanotechnology research, incorporation of additional nanotechnology expertise, and long- term and stable funding of nanotechnology.

*******************

Article 401

My name is James Roberto, and I am the Associate Laboratory Director for Physical Sciences at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL). ORNL is a Department of Energy multiprogram laboratory managed by UT-Battelle, LLC, a partnership of the University of Tennessee and Battelle Memorial Institute. It is an honor to appear before the Committee in support of The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003.

In my role at ORNL I oversee the physical sciences, including nanoscale science and technology. This includes the development of ORNL's Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences (CNMS), one of DOE's five planned Nanoscale Science Research Centers. The CNMS is a state-of-the-art user facility for nanoscale science and technology. It builds upon ORNL's strengths in neutron scattering (for atomic-scale structure and dynamics), materials and chemical sciences (for synthesis and characterization), and computational science (for simulation and modeling). 

The excitement surrounding nanoscale science and technology is real. The recent DOE Nanoscale Science Research Centers Workshop and National Users Meeting in Washington, D.C., attracted more than 400 scientists and engineers from 94 universities, 40 industries, and 15 federal laboratories. More than 2000 researchers have attended regional and national workshops for the DOE Nanoscale Science Research Centers. It is difficult to find a month without a national or international meeting in this field.

Nanoscale science and technology crosscuts the traditional disciplines of materials science, chemistry, physics, biology, computational science, and engineering. It occupies the frontiers of these fields and includes some of the most challenging research problems. The solutions to these problems offer a line- of-sight to technical advances of enormous potential in materials, information technology, healthcare, and national security. Many see nanotechnology as the basis of the next industrial revolution.

John Marburger, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, describes this revolution as one in which "the notion that everything is made of atoms has a real operational significance." This has been made possible by extraordinary tools such as synchrotron light sources, neutron sources, electron microscopes, scanning probe microscopes, and high-performance computers. These tools have enabled the atomic-scale characterization, manipulation, and simulation of complex assemblies of atoms and molecules. This is a "bottoms up" view of the physical world-Mother Nature's view- that embraces breathtaking complexity and seemingly endless possibilities.

So we are at a crossroads in the physical sciences. The boundaries between scientific disciplines are disappearing at the nanoscale. The study of simple, isolated systems is giving way to complex assemblies. We are moving from atomic-scale characterization to atomic-scale control, from miniaturization to self-assembly. Change is opportunity, and this paradigm shift for the physical sciences rivals other revolutions in science, such as the revolution in biology following the discovery of the molecular structure of DNA.

It is this opportunity, and the technological impact that will result, that underpin The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003. This Act is an important element of the strategy to strengthen the physical sciences in the United States. Other components include the Energy Research, Development, Demonstration, and Commercial Application Act of 2003 (H.R. 238) and the Energy and Science Research Investment Act of 2003 (H.R. 34). The traceability of advances in the physical sciences to economic growth, new medical technology, energy independence, and enhanced national security is strong. As you know, the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) has given high priority to strengthening the physical sciences, including nanoscale science and technology. This priority is reflected in the budget request for the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which increases to $849M in FY 2004, including $197M for DOE.

I offer the following responses to the specific questions posed by the Committee:

Question 1: Through a workshop and other planning exercises, Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) has developed a roadmap for its Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology research programs, establishing criteria by which staff research proposals are evaluated. ORNL's planning and management activities are analogous to the tasks assigned to the Interagency Committee established in section 3(c) of H.R. 766. In your view, would it be worthwhile to develop a national technology roadmap to guide federal nanotechnology research? To your knowledge, is such an effort underway now?

Answer: Through two widely-attended workshops (there has been a lot of interest in these workshops), ORNL developed with the scientific community a set of proposed research focus areas, equipment priorities, and access policies for the CNMS. This input is reflected in the design and research capabilities of the CNMS. This was a very productive exercise, embodying the elements of identifying research grand challenges, improving community cooperation, and enabling interdisciplinary planning that are addressed in the National Academy of Sciences recommendations on the National Nanotechnology Initiative and the provisions of H.R. 766.

A similar roadmapping exercise to guide federal nanotechnology research would be useful. Nanotechnology is here and growing, and the time between discovery and application is shrinking. A coordinated federal program could more effectively leverage the capabilities of the various agencies, establish overarching investment strategies, and inform the research community of technological challenges and needs. One must be careful here. We do not know all the answers. The roadmap will provide focus and accelerate progress in identified directions, but a healthy component of fundamental research must be maintained to underpin the overall nanotechnology effort and provide a broader avenue for innovation.

There are many planning activities under way in nanotechnology at agency, interagency, institutional, professional society, and industry-specific levels. I am not aware of any comprehensive federal nanotechnology roadmapping effort.

Question 2: Likewise, ORNL's Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences, currently under construction, could be a model for the interdisciplinary research centers and advanced technology user facilities authorized in section 3(b). How will the Center foster effective collaboration across academic disciplines, and among government, university, and industry researchers?

Answer: The Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences is organized around research focus areas that represent grand challenges in nanoscale science and technology. These focus areas are inherently interdisciplinary and will naturally attract researchers from many disciplines. In addition, an active workshop program will bring together scientists and engineers from a variety of disciplines to assess opportunities in emerging areas of nanoscale science and technology. These workshops, which will be broadly advertised and open, will precipitate the assembly of interdisciplinary teams that will develop user proposals. Finally, the Center will be staffed with scientific and technical user support staff that span materials science, chemistry, physics, biology, computational science, and engineering. These staff and the users will work together in laboratory spaces designed for interdisciplinary research.

Question 3: Some individuals and groups have suggested that nanotechnology developments may raise societal and ethical concerns. Is any part of ORNL's activity devoted to addressing such concerns?

Answer: There are legitimate societal and ethical concerns related to technological advances including nanoscale science and technology. While these concerns have been exaggerated in the popular press, all technical progress includes some risk. Public awareness and involvement are essential to dealing with this risk. I am pleased that H.R. 766 includes specific provisions for supporting studies of societal and ethical concerns.

ORNL has a significant outreach program of communication and interaction with the public. This includes public lectures, tours, and secondary school programs, including classroom visits and teacher development. CNMS will be actively engaged in these programs.

Question 4: Are the views of the research community affiliated with ORNL adequately reflected in the research plan for the federal interagency nanotechnology research initiative? Do you believe that there would be value in establishing an external advisory committee for the initiative?

Answer: I believe that the views of the nanoscale science and technology community affiliated with ORNL are generally reflected in the research plan for the federal nanotechnology research initiative. However, as the initiative develops, continued review and oversight of federal nanotechnology programs by PCAST would be useful in providing overall guidance for the initiative, providing high-level feedback on programs and research directions, and providing visible and independent assessment of national policy and opportunities.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your commitment to science and nanotechnology research and development. The scientific community appreciates the Committee's leadership in this area and firmly believes that the future of our nation depends on continued leadership in science and technology.


*******************

Article 402

Let me first thank you for the invitation to offer my testimony on H.R. 766 Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003. It is a privilege to speak not just on behalf of my own group, but the Nanobiotechnology Center and moreover the scientists and engineers who are engaged in a grand adventure. To start the discussion, I would pose the age old question, how many angels can dance on the head of a pin? While this vexing question has been the fodder of philosophers and theologians, a practical answer eludes us. Two confounding factors: how small are angels and how small can we make the head of a pin. In medieval times, angels were believed to be the smallest possible physical object. A more approachable challenge came in 1959 with the question from Richard Feynman "Why cannot we write the entire 24 volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica on the head of a pin?" . The challenge of moving around single atoms has been met, the issue of making it practical remains . We can now for all practical purposes write the Encyclopedia Britannica on the head of a pin. But what should come of these technological feats, what is nanotechnology? 

Through nanotechnology we seek to control single molecules at the atomic level and through those processes create novel materials as well as new devices. Nanotechnology as practiced by scientists and engineers in the academic sector is not just an exercise in fancy science, it will have a significant impact on industry and society as a whole. It will provide novel medical therapies, help to survey and protect the environment, make unique materials that have enhanced properties and lead to a new generation of manufacturing capabilities that will simply revolutionize and revitalize American industry.

The impact that nanotechnology is currently having on new and existing industries is significant, but the potential for the future is enormous. It is estimated that nanotechnology will have a one-trillion dollar impact on the global economy in the next decade. Existing industries including those not typically characterized as 'high tech' will see their product lines and the way they manufacture them influenced by our growing knowledge in nanotechnology. Moreover, aspects of nanotechnology will help to drive small companies whose products are developed for niche markets including sensors, bio and chemical analytical devices and boutique chemical and ingredients. These technologies are not likely to require the multi-billion dollar investments that 'chip' manufacturers must face. Therefore progress will be even more rapid as the relative risk from investing in nanotechnology will be lower. Nevertheless significant investment in research and development is needed especially in the academic sector.

Nanotechnology will lead a renaissance in manufacturing in more rural areas abandoned by traditional manufacturing over the past 50 years. It has the potential for reviving communities that used to be the home of skilled laborers who contributed to the last industrial revolution. While 'traditional' chip based manufacturing has contributed to economic growth in a select number of regional areas, nanotechnology and especially its applications to the interface with biology will have a more wide- spread geographic impact. As a resident of upstate New York, I look forward to nanotechnology being an economic driver in a community that has seen most of the manufacturing jobs lost over the past 50 years. I live in a small town, Groton, New York that used to be the home of Smith Corona. At one point it employed over a thousand people in my town but those jobs left as the utility of the typewriter dwindled.

How does the Cornell Nanobiotechnology Center advance nanotechnology research and development compared to what the University could accomplish on its own?

Support from the National Science Foundation through our designation as a Science and Technology Center is clearly the driving force behind our research and development efforts at the Nanobiotechnology Center. Our center has one mission: to build innovative tools to study biology at the nanometer scale. Cornell University is the lead institution in the Nanobiotechnology Center and our partners include Wadsworth Center (NYS Department of Health), Princeton University, Oregon Health and Sciences University, Howard University and Clark Atlanta University.

The field of nanobiotechnology, as created with the establishment of our center in 2000, would not exist in its current incarnation were it not for the collective efforts of the center's faculty and the commitment of the NSF.

Most of today's most challenging problems in science and engineering are complex and they will not be solved by single investigators working within the borders of their own chosen fields. Problems as far ranging as curing cancer to building the next-generation of sensors to help safeguard our homelands, could not be successfully addressed without support similar in size and scope to the investment made by the NSF in our center. That investment over the anticipated 10 years of our center's life will total approximately $40M. While that is substantial compared to individual investigator awards (by an order of magnitude), the support per investigator within the Nanobiotechnology Center is not extraordinary, nevertheless the center concept works and value is added through a 'center' type of mechanism. What is extraordinary is the nature of the center and the commitment that we have to act as an interdisciplinary team pooling our collective skills in fields including life sciences, engineering, physics and chemistry. Not an obligation borne out of mandate, but a commitment that arises from the notion that no individual and no single discipline can bring all of the skills that are required for these complex endeavors. The center will cease to be a Science and Technology Center at the end of 2009, the obliged 10-year sunset of all NSF supported Science and Technology Centers. What we hope to leave as a legacy is a unique collection of innovative tools to study biology at the nanometer scale, a fledgling knowledge of how biological molecules behave in the nanospace and a talented group of young people. My colleagues Paul McEuen, Harold Craighead and I are extending Paul's efforts to create single molecule transistors to develop sensors that are sensitive enough to detect a single piece of DNA. We see applications in environmental protection, food safety and homeland security for these sensors and envision how a network of these sensors can form a web that would survey large areas alerting us to potential hazards. Others at the Nanobiotechnology Center including Lois Pollack and Robert Austin (Princeton) are creating devices to understand how proteins fold, a fundamental process that will unlock the mysteries of the genome by informing us how to translate the vast databases of DNA sequences into functional elements. The challenges of addressing the development of new scientific disciplines in a university setting are significant but Cornell does it better than most. The University is just a physical entity that hopefully fosters the faculty, students and staff to excel. Fortunately if you are at a university like Cornell, which is rich in a tradition that nurtures interdisciplinary research and whose departments, schools and colleges cover a wide range of areas from food science to physics (not to mention the humanities), you have all of the resources that you could ever hope to muster. Nevertheless there needs to be some glue, some incentive.

The Nanobiotechnology Center with the support of the NSF provides that incentive, as it encourages faculty to nucleate and explore complex problems that can only be addressed by developing and exploiting unique tools. Support is primarily used to provide stipends and salaries for graduate students and postdoctoral associates. They are truly the bright young minds that bring their enthusiasm to bear on these biological problems. So in effect the center has many products, not just the fruits of our scientific discoveries but also the students and postdoctoral associates that are supported and trained by the center. These students and postdoctoral associates are the next-generation of scientists and engineers who are equipped with a unique set of skills honed by the interdisciplinary nature of their research.

My students approach scientific questions in a much different fashion than traditionally trained students, acquiring, then applying a wide range of skills far more diverse and more versatile than I garnered as a graduate student. Graduate training, at its core, is focused on engaging a student's mind and providing them with challenging questions. It is not much different than when I was a graduate student, but the current set of questions and the potential routes to answer those questions are much more robust for students engaged in the center's programs. For example students in my laboratory are actively engaged in what we call biofabrication, using biological systems much the same way that you would use tools and processes from the microelectronics industry to build computer chips. We, on the other hand, instead of using x-rays and harsh chemicals, use biological molecules and 'grow' our components with tools isolated from cells. We hope over the coming years to marry the biological machinery with more traditional forms of fabrication to develop unique materials and then structures that have properties virtually unknown in the natural or manmade world. These might be replacement parts for damaged cellular components or new devices that can survey the environment for pollutants well before we recognize the impact of these pollutants on our health. We look to biofabrication as being an environmentally friendly form of fabrication that will complement the existing silicon processing methods that are well entrenched in the industry.

Does the center actively foster collaboration across academic disciplines, for example?

The research projects supported by the Nanobiotechnology Center are expected to be interdisciplinary, and in fact, it would be virtually impossible for us to make progress if we worked in isolation apart from our colleagues in other disciplines. The challenges are simply too complex and for the faculty our training was for the most part focused narrowly in a single discipline. When you survey the goals of the various research projects you discover that even those biological questions which appear simple are vastly complex. We also seek unique solutions for fabrication at the nanometer scale using biology to inform us. You can look at something as simple as a diatom and realize that within its limited genome is the blueprint for creating three-dimensional structures in silicon that would be the envy of any engineer. But our main focus is on exploring problems in biology at the nanometer scale. For example, a number of projects seek to explore the question: how molecules behave in the nanospace? Through nanotechnology we seek to have an unprecedented and highly precise means to understand and control molecules. To assemble them and to rearrange them in a manner that yields unique properties. Molecules behave quite differently when they are constrained and yet most models to explain, for example, how various molecules regulate the controlled growth of cells (or the uncontrolled as in the case of cancer) do not account for the complexity of these situations. So to address the question, the center fosters interactions between biologists who understand the nature of the molecules and the engineers who can build tools to study these molecules. Left alone biologists would not attempt to build tools to study molecules at the nanometer scale, while engineers would not have an appreciation of the complexity of biological molecules let alone the systems in which they are found.

Cornell University is fortunate to have four NSF supported centers that have a focus or at least a concentration in nanotechnology. These include my own Nanobiotechnology Center, the Cornell Center for Materials Research, the Center for Nanoscale Systems and a splendid facility, the Cornell Nanofabrication Facility that is our beloved 'tool box' where we create these nanodevices. There are faculty that are members of more than one of these centers and we collectively form a very strong foundation in nanotechnology. We come from different departments and from different colleges scattered throughout Cornell University. We come together not just because of the funding but because of the intellectual community that exists within these different centers.

For faculty, working across disciplines is a matter of communication. We speak different languages and exist in different cultures. We approach problems differently. Physicists work in a world dominated by large analytical instruments many of which are custom built and years are invested in their creation. Biologists are much more likely to seek out existing technology because their science involves generating data that can be compared to data generated using similar instrumentation. But moreover we differ in the way we approach experimentation and the questions that we are seeking to answer. Our students are hybrids able to conceive, create and use innovative tools and seek answers to important biological questions. Our job as faculty is to facilitate and encourage this interaction. In my experience once it gets started, those students that are motivated and forward thinking, get engaged and will move the effort along.

How does your center interface with the private sector? Do you host any collaborative university-industry nanotechnology research and, if the answer is yes, does the existence of the center make those collaborations easier?

In 2001, I was fortunate to be the project leader for an effort that was selected by New York State, through the New York State Office of Science, Technology and Academic Research (NYSTAR) for support. Over two years, $2.8M was pledged to the Alliance for Nanomedical Technologies. The Alliance had one simple goal: to bring together academia and the private-sector to develop the next generation of nanomedical devices. In establishing this research and development center, we sought industrial input from the beginning. Too often academic institutions invent, publish and then look to find a champion for its technology. Too often then the specifications of the technology arising from a scientific discovery made in academia do not match the needs of the private-sector. Too often then the investment in retrofitting technology developed in academia for the private-sector is greater than the return. Academia is a grand incubator from which emerges scientific discovery and that process should remain unfettered. Nevertheless the Alliance set forth, in developing its research goals, to be inclusive of the private-sector and within one year we had 28 affiliates who brought their business plans and technology targets to the table and engaged our academic scientists in serious discussions. From those discussions, a series of research projects were formulated which were driven by the rigorous academic questions offered by the faculty balanced with the future needs of the industry. For example, Alliance supported researchers are looking at arrhythmia in cardiac cells while also designing the next generation in wireless cardiac monitoring all guided by specifications articulated by our private-sector affiliates. Similarly, Alliance supported research will yield a new class of hand-held sensors that are capable of precise identification of bacteria. This technology will have multiple uses in insuring food safety and well as homeland security.

The linkage between the university and the private-sector is absolutely critical. Having been engaged in one form or another of technology development for over 20 years, I believe that success is dependent upon the technology having a practical impact on the lives of people. Making scientific discoveries, publishing papers, going to meetings to exchange ideas with my colleagues is only part of the process. Seeing technology reach a point where it is available is also important. And the university is typically awful about bringing technology to a point where it is commercially viable. The Alliance for Nanomedical Technologies is attempting to bridge that gap and simplify the hand off from the university to the private-sector. Not everyone in academia is happy about this linkage, many feeling that it will compromise their 'academic freedom'. To paraphrase the words of Lloyd Old, a friend and the Chief Executive of the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research (with whom we have a partnership to develop therapeutic agents for cancer research) scientific discoveries by the academic community in and of themselves, are admirable but it remains a great challenge to insure that they are useful. While linkages with industry are only one way that research discoveries can achieve a degree of usefulness, certainly seeing research reach some stage of application is important especially as we articulate its value to the general public.

Some individuals and groups have suggested that nanotechnology developments may raise societal and ethical concerns. Is any part of your center's activity devoted to addressing such concerns?

New technology will always raise the concerns of the public especially when we, the scientific community do not take the time and have the patience to articulate the field. What falls into the void that we create by remaining cloistered in our laboratories, are pundits and pseudoscientists whose mission is to, at best, tantalize, at worse, to strike fear. It makes great novels, and it makes even better movies but the threshold into science fiction is murky. Nanotechnology will not as a technology spawn a new threat to society. History shows that most of the dangers to society that result from the misuse of technology arises not from state-of-the-art technology but more mundane technology in the hands of opportunists. We have in the last twenty years alone seen horrific acts carried out by individuals and groups with some fairly unsophisticated technology.

There are certainly ethical concerns with any new technology that must be considered. The prospects of a run away technology as described in Michael Crichton's book 'Prey' would be a sad outcome, but the current state-of-the-art in nanotechnology in no way enables that outcome. The technology as described in this fictional account is not even close to reality. No enabling technology exists or is on the horizon that could account for the fanciful creatures described there. In fact I was, as a microbiologist disappointed by the lack of even a single technically feasible anchor in the book. Yet it received lots of press coverage and through a variety of media especially the Internet, fanciful predictions of doom proliferated. Unfortunately, the barrier between scientific reality and science fiction is only as high as the imagination of a talented cartoonist. Pictures abound on the internet of nanobots and other imaginary things and we at the Nanobiotechnology Center spend a good deal of time engaged in reality checks for students and the general public. Even some of my colleagues lean over the line at times seduced by the publicity and the potential that this notoriety brings in terms of funding and other opportunities. Yet the practical reality, self-assembling, autonomous machines smaller than a bacterium that can scurry about like little fleas are still just the product of an artist's imagination. One practical problem that is yet to be solved is powering these devices. In most cases the battery to run any mechanical device far exceeds the device itself.

There are real dangers in the world and those that concern us now are fifty year old technologies, lethal in the hands of individuals and organizations that would choose to use them.

So how best to meet the societal concerns of nanotechnology? My colleague, Anna Waldron (who directs our education effort at the Nanobiotechnology Center) and I have elected to focus our attention on the next generation of potential scientists and engineers. This is not a theoretical exercise carried out in the ivy covered walls of Cornell University, but a practical experiment in classrooms in towns and villages that surround our campus. We are engaging the young men and especially the young woman, who in increasing numbers, do not look at science as an educational opportunity let alone a career for them. They do not see themselves as scientists and that is a significant barrier that we seek to overcome. We work in concert with their teachers recognizing that this partnership will only work if we understand their world. With more and more mandated curricula, we need to fit into their needs rather than offering content that has no relevance to the rest of their educational experience. We operate three middle school science clubs for girls addressing the challenge of encouraging young women to consider careers in science. We also host two afterschool science clubs for underrepresented minorities at the Onondaga Nation School and Shea Middle School (Syracuse, NY) exercising our belief that these young students have all the potential in the world. We offer events for the general public and every summer we engage more than 3,000 people at the Great New York State Fair with the wonders of the Nanoworld. In about one month we will have the grand opening for a traveling museum exhibit, It's a NanoWorld that has been developed with our collaborators from the Sciencenter and Painted Universe in Ithaca, which we estimate will reach more than one million people during its tour around the United States.

In helping educate and more importantly inspire these young students, we hope to raise the general awareness of the public at large as to what nanotechnology is all about. That this technology and in general most technology has a very positive impact on our lives. We have coined this effort Main Street Science and over the next five years hope to take the scientific discoveries of our center and others and translate them into practical and approachable concepts for students and the general public. At Main Street Science we will harness the energy of our undergraduates and graduate students to develop hands-on activities giving them a practical experience in community science. What scientific discoveries do we hope to share with young students? For example few students even through high school understand what the term 'nano' means in its fullest context. They understand that a nanosecond is pretty fast but they don't comprehend that a hummingbird beats its wings about 100-200 times per second. That is virtually imperceptible to the human eye and is faster than the flickering of a fluorescent light bulb. Never the less computers operate about a million times faster. They know that a nanometer is pretty small, but they do not realize that the distance between atoms is on the order of a nanometer. So for younger children, we consider it a challenge for them to comprehend simply what a billion is and expose them to the concept using thousands of little plastic Lego blocks. We engage kids and have them hopefully begin to believe that science is a good thing and learning about science can be exciting. Regardless of whether these kids go on to get their Ph.D. in nanotechnology it is important to have them believe that they can do it.

A more scientifically literate public is one sure route to ameliorate the fears that seem to accompany many scientific revolutions. History is replete with examples of where new scientific discoveries were met with public challenges and only after a significant back lash, did we the scientific community come out of our laboratories and seek to engage the public. The NSF to their credit has put engagement as one of the important criterion for their supported research programs.

Are the views of the academic research community adequately reflected in the research plan for the federal interagency nanotechnology research initiative? Do you believe that there would be value in establishing an external advisory committee for the initiative?

Clearly any researcher focused on nanotechnology would find merit in the research plan for the interagency nanotechnology research initiative as outlined in HR 766. I have watched with a great deal of satisfaction and pride the efforts of the National Science Foundation in their development of the current array of centers and other programs. It is precisely these types of external stimuli that help drive innovation at the university. Investments by the NSF are welcome and more would be appreciated. The benefit from investing in technology is magnified well beyond the academic community and is an economic driver for new and existing industries. The number of new startups whose business plan includes nanotechnology is growing exponentially.

An external advisory committee would have a daunting task in lending guidance to a national nanotechnology initiative. Nanotechnology is a very complex field whose definition has yet to be fully formulated and embraced by everyone in the scientific community. Purists look at nanotechnology as including only those efforts that impact at the nanometer scale. I take a more broader view cognizant of the appeal that the term 'nano' has especially when it comes to engaging young scientists. I like the definition in HR 766 "at the atomic and molecular scale". Certainly an advisory committee charged with insuring that the scientific community moves forward is important. Too often academics look at research in their chosen field and funding for it as an entitlement. The never-ending battle cry that more research is needed is something that I believe needs to be continuously reassessed. Scientists in academia have two important functions, to engage in scientific discovery and to provide educational opportunities for students of all ages. Nanotechnology represents one field that will have a dramatic impact on our nation and its citizens. Moving forward in a bold and progressive fashion is important and certainly guidance from highly regarded and respected scientists in the field would be an useful component.

In summary, this bill represents a significant investment but one that will stimulate a new era in, not only science but technology. Nanotechnology will be the basis for vast improvements in materials, sensors, electronics and will impact a number of fields including the life sciences. It will stimulate scientists in a diverse array of disciplines to think beyond their current set of tools and the potential is enormous. We will see nanotechnology impact existing industries but also drive the development of new industries launching new start-up firms that take the best of American entrepreneurship and couple that to discoveries in academia. Investment in nanotechnology through the a mechanism as outlined in HR 766 will help enormously.

*******************

Article 403

Mr. Chairman, Congressman Hall, members of the committee, I thank you for allowing me the opportunity to testify before you on the topic of the The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003- on behalf of the NanoBusiness Alliance and its member organizations.

We are witnessing the dawn of a new era in science, industry and quality of life. More quickly than anyone could have imagined even just a few years ago when the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) was announced, nanotechnology is entering the marketplace and indeed changing our lives.

Today's nanotech industry might be compared to the computer industry of the 1960s, before the integrated circuit, or the biotech industry of the 1970s. A variety of nanomaterials including enhanced polymers, coatings, and fillers, are already available, producing revenues, and profits. America's store shelves have sunscreens, tennis rackets, and cellphones with nanotechnology elements bettering them. Carbon nanotube flatscreens, advanced military sensors and other electronic products will be in the market within 18 months. And advanced nanotech medical advances will be imminently impacting lives as they proceed through human trials. - targeted drug delivery and cancer tagging procedures. 

My own firm, JPMorgan Partners, believes that nanotechnology advances will impact many of the sectors where we already invest, including biotechnology, energy, communications and semiconductors. Over the past few years, we have provided venture capital to five nanotechnology companies in diverse market applications like textiles, drug discovery, electronics and flat panel displays. Last quarter, JPMP led a $30 million C round of funding in Optiva, which was one of the largest nanotechnology funding rounds for all VC's in 2002. We are continuing to diligently investigate private equity funding opportunities in nanotechnology and feel it is a promising area for commercial growth.

As production of nano-products becomes easier, faster and cheaper, every market sector will begin to feel their impact. The NSF conservatively predicts a $1 trillion global market for nanotechnology in little over a decade.

In order to ensure these types of numbers; in order to ensure that nanotechnology hits its potential; in order to ensure that the US remains the leader in nanoscience and nanobusiness; we must proceed aggressively -- learning from the lessons of the past -- and create a dialog with the public today so that everyone understands and prepares for the transformative effects of nanotechnology in the future. This starts with the passage of The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003

The Act is a visionary piece of legislation. It has the strong support of the NanoBusiness Alliance and the Alliance member organizations -some 250 start-ups, corporations, universities, economic development groups and investment firms from across America. By all accounts this is a vital and timely bill that builds on the fine work of the NNI and will assist America's long term scientific and economic competitiveness in the nanotech field.

NanoScience to NanoBusiness

Nanotechnology is becoming nanobusiness faster than anyone imagined. A big reason for this has been the ripple effect from the NNI's groundbreaking work and how it has sparked the imagination of researchers, entrepreneurs, executives, and people from across the world. The foresight of Presidents Clinton and Bush, the efforts of Mike Roco, Jim Murday, Phil Bond and others has been the trigger for a new age of industry.

With a plethora of products in the market and more on the way, it is no longer prudent to view nanotechnology as just a science. While basic research efforts must be protected and enhanced as they are the lynchpin of this new industrial revolution, our focus must be widened to include commercialization and a global race in the field of nanobusiness. We must look to find ways to take basic research and advance it towards commercialization. We need funding solutions for technical problems such as packaging and integration of nanotechnology. Further, we need funding solutions to scaling problems such as process reproducibility, product quality and product cost. We must find a way to use nanotechnology to give taxpayers a return on their investment, develop the economy and create good high paying jobs. The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003 lays the foundation for this.

Corporations

Just five years ago only a few corporate visionaries - IBM, HP, TI among them - were undertaking any research and development in the nanosciences. Today you would find that most manufacturing companies of the Fortune 500 have some nanotechnology effort -GM, GE, Siemens, Intel, NEC, ChevronTexaco, Mitsubishi, Hitachi and Dow have launched significant nanotech efforts-in R&D, investment and product development.

Start-Ups

Unlike the Dot-com era, nanotech start ups are built on physical, chemical and biological science. They have real technology. Real assets. And more often than not, they are founded by researchers from universities, government and corporate laboratories.

More than half the world nanotech start-ups are in the US. And while it is difficult to pin an exact number on how many there are, it is safe to say that over one thousand are currently in operation or in the incubation stage in the US, up from approximately one hundred just three years ago. Although these start-ups are driven by enthusiastic entrepreneurs and usually have valuable technology, most of these small companies will fade away due to lack of expertise or funding necessary to bring them to product commercialization.

Private Equity Funding:

Over sixty US venture capital firms, in addition to numerous corporate venturing operations, have invested in nanotech-related companies. Because the formal definition of nanotechnology is quite malleable, it is difficult to measure the total private equity investment level, but Venture One tracked almost $500 million in nanotech funding to start-ups in 2002.

Many promising entrepreneurs and interesting technologies will not be funded by private equity sources because they cannot bridge the gap from the laboratory to the marketplace. Venture firms like JPMorgan Partners must place funds in a manner that will bring competitive returns to our limited partners. Usually, this means that a start-up must make reasonable progress in process reproducibility, product quality and product cost before a venture firm can reasonably invest. Unfortunately, this is often where federal funding has been lacking. The result is that many businesses that could drive the future commercial growth for our country never get their ideas out of the laboratory.

Regional Development:

Ultimately, regional development efforts --the creation of technology clusters (Nanotech Valleys if you will) -- will fuel the explosive growth of the nanotechnology industry. Localized development efforts are already underway from Virginia to Texas to California.

In February alone, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, and Connecticut announced the formation of statewide nanotechnology initiatives, initiatives that begin to bring together businesses, universities, investors and government agencies. This has been the fulfillment of much of the Johnny Appleseed-like efforts of the NanoBusiness Alliance that started at its inception.

The Alliance launched a "Nanotech Hubs Initiative" last year to jump start regional technology cluster development. It has been overwhelmed with interest in starting these efforts. Though it has launched efforts in six regions--as well as affiliates in the EU and Canada - the Alliance has been inundated with calls from 38 states and 27 countries to help develop this capacity. These states and regions are already looking to nanotechnology to ignite economic development.

Regions are looking to grasp the size of the market, its dynamics, its best practices, how to improve tech transfer efforts and how to leverage other nanotech initiatives. In some cases the Alliance has the answer. In many it does not. This is a consequence of the nanotech field's growth outpacing original projects.

Foreign Competition

Nanotechnology is emerging as a truly global technology. Unlike many past waves of technological development, nanotechnology is not dominated by the United States. In several areas of nanotechnology the US is being outpaced by foreign competition. Japan, EU, Russia, Korea, and China are all significant players in the field of nanotechnology.

A recent report from the Journal of Japanese Trade & Industry notes that the Japanese government views the successful development of nanotechnology as the key to "restoration of the Japanese economy." In an editorial to the Jerusalem Post just last week titled "NANOTECHNOLOGY HOLDS A KEY TO ISRAEL'S FUTURE," Shimon Peres made a similar case. They are not alone. Funding has grown at unprecedented rates across the globe over the last three years as nations try to outpace the US.

Two weeks ago Japan held a nanotech event that demonstrated products that were already in the market or were about to be introduced to market. 25,000 attendees showed up over 3 days at the convention center. Some 18 countries had booths at the show. What was particularly telling was that all the country booths were sponsored by government economic development groups except the US -which was science and academic backed. Also telling was that most commoditized technology demonstrated at the show was derived from US developed intellectual property -only it was Japanese, German and Korean companies that were commercializing these technologies and advancing them beyond basic research.

China spends about $300-400 million on nanotechnology a year -yet in adjusted value that is a huge amount. The European NanoBusiness Association has made the claim that nanotech is "the EU's to lose" and says that they outspend the United States 2 to 1. Japan's numbers are almost directly in line with our NNI and from a per capita level the Swiss and even the Australians are spending more than the US.

So while the proposed increases to the NNI are indeed solid and significant -especially in these turbulent economic times, we must remain aware of the fact that other nations are challenging us and are willing to match and in some cases exceed us in spending and effort. It is important that we focus on this and spend money wisely and create a solid partnership between government, industry and the US university system to ensure that effort and performance are maximized so that we can indeed win this next industrial revolution.

Summary of Challenges in the NanoBusiness World

Many nanotech companies have emerged from the basic research cycle and are addressing commercialization issues such as packaging, integration and scaling. Except for the ATP program, no government programs properly address this vital timeframe in the cycle of research and business. This time period is one that competing nations in Asia and the EU are particularly attuned to addressing and are providing a life line to many US start-ups, which sends growth and profits abroad.

Another area of concern for nanotech start ups is the current state of US intellectual property. The Patent Office is in desperate need of training programs to ensure its examiners understand nanotechnology and its multi-disciplinary nature.

In addition, the current state of technology transfer is lacking by any measure. The technology transfer process from government and academic labs to the marketplace is very difficult. Bayh-Dole is a well written piece of legislation, but its implementation at America's universities is stalling the transfer process.

And while the NNI and overall government nanotech efforts have been a great source of coordination and basic research funding for many, these nanotech grants remain among the most competitive in the government.

Also, education, as well as workforce training and development are beginning to become issues among the nanotech community. In order to be the industry of tomorrow nanotechnology companies need the workforce of tomorrow -well trained researchers and staff.

Lastly, while the futuristic nanotechnology scenario described by Michael Crichton is thankfully science fiction, real researchers in the lab still have many questions on nanotechnology's health, environmental and societal effects. These concerns are leading to hesitation. They have also left room for activists with bad intent to fill the information void with fear. Nanotechnology is too important to the future of the American people to let this happen. We need more information and a coordinated effort to educate and dialog with the public on nanotechnology and its potential.

Close

In closing, nanotechnology the science is indeed now rapidly becoming nanotechnology the business. As a nation we have been very fortunate to have the visionary support --from both sides of the aisle -- in developing and maintaining the NNI. However, we are now at a cross roads where we must expand its reach from the laboratory to the board room. While maintaining the development of basic research as a priority, we must expand our sights to cultivate the nanotechnology industry and usher in a new Industrial Revolution. Again, that is why The Nanotechnology Research and Development Act of 2003 is so important.

1. We see the Act's ability to strengthen the structure of the NNI as being vitally important -- increasing the long term stability and growth of our Nation's nanotechnology efforts.

2. The Act makes the development of the nanotechnology sector a major government focus. We especially support the Act's call for the development of some sort of outside advisory board -though we feel this group must include not just researchers, but business people, local government officials, economic development experts and ethicists.

3. To ensure America's long term leadership in nanoscience and nanobusiness, we also strongly support the Act's call for further examination and tracking of international funding, development and competition.

4. We strongly support the Act's efforts to further address the social and environmental impacts of the science, but we would caution that this effort be focused on real science, not well read science fiction.

5. And, we back the Act's efforts to encourage nanoscience through additional grants, and the establishment of interdisciplinary nanotechnology research centers. This will lead to more innovation and further development of the nanotech economy.

Long term, the Alliance would like to see Congress continue its focus on nanotechnology developing programs - and expanding existing programs - for commercializing nanotechnology development.

1. Develop real numbers and benchmarks for the size and projected growth of the nanotechnology field and its economic effects.

2. Create programs to develop the nanotechnology workforce of tomorrow from PhD level through K-12. We must find ways to incentivize American children to pursue the sciences in general- but especially nanoscience.

3. Ensure that the USPTO is properly educated and equipped to evaluate and approve nanotechnology patents. And make sure that there is global patent fairness. We cannot allow other nations to use patent approval as a weapon to slow down and steal our basic research

4. Develop programs that promote and nurture regional nanotechnology cluster development.

5. Develop programs to improve the state of tech transfer at government labs and academic institutions which will improve the commercialization of emerging technologies

6. Involve the US public more in the dialog educating them and listening to their views on this paradigm shifting technology.

Again, I would like to thank the Chairman, Congressman Hall and the Committee for this opportunity to address them.


*******************

Article 404

- We are also committed to leapfrogging today's energy choices with advanced concepts such as fusion. The President has announced that we will enter negotiations on TTER, to explore the next critical step in bringing electricity from fusion energy to the grid. If fusion proves successful, it could be the dominant new energy source for the end of this century and beyond.

- The Department is continuing its work as a critical part of the President's initiative on nanoscience. As the Chairman has noted, the Department is a major contributor in the nanotechnology field, and we intend to continue our leadership role by fully funding the construction of five nanoscience centers. These will be unique and essential facilities to help us realize the remarkable promise of nanotechnology.

These initiatives work together. For example, materials work from nanoscience will contribute to advanced fuel cell work, and fusion will one day perhaps give us the hydrogen we need to run those fuel cells.


*******************

Article 405

And if we don't invest as a nation, we are gradually going to lose this part of our economy. As sure as God made little green apples and there is a cause and effect here. It's very hard to draw, you know, micro connection. But when you go back to the macro view and you see that the EU as you mention, in 2020, has pledged to spend $95 billion over the next 10 or 15 years to displace us, and you look at our -- what is going on in the civil aviation side of our economy, you see we have these huge structural problems that we've got to deal with.

REP. LARSON: Mr. Hamre.

MR. HAMRE: My gut instinct says that we probably need to be spending more. But we do need to -- an awful lot of work for aviation in the future is really on things like materials technology, nanotechnology. So it may not be showing up in the kind of ways that in the past you'd think about going into a NASA budget into a wind tunnel. You'd have to get people that are more expert, that are really looking at the details of it to know where we need to be.

But, you know, I think this is an industry right now that most people have decided it's an old, mature industry and it's not very exciting and people are walking away from it. And I think that's going to be a mistake.


*******************

Article 406

These investments in basic research directly support the work of more than 8,000 researchers and students at more than 250 universities and at DOE's national labs. In addition, another 18,000 researchers annually take advantage of the major scientific user facilities operated on behalf of the Nation. The Office of Science is the steward of 10 national laboratories, which conduct and collaborate on the multi-disciplinary research that is essential to providing sustained progress toward the most difficult scientific questions and to ensuring that our Nation is able to respond rapidly in times of need.

These researchers will advance the frontiers of nanoscale science; pursue the key questions at the intersection of physics and astronomy identified by the National Academy of Sciences; develop the knowledge base for bringing genomes to life with the potential to harness microbes and microbial communities to improve energy production and environmental remediation; advance the goals of the Administration's Climate Change Research Initiative and the National Energy Policy; begin negotiations to participate in the international fusion project - ITER; develop a new generation of computing architecture to identify and address performance bottlenecks in existing and planned systems; and bring the full potential of scientific computation to bear on the Department's scientific problems.

The Office of Science is the single largest supporter of basic research in the physical sciences, providing approximately 40 percent of all federal funds in this area over the past decade. It is also the steward, and by far the principal funding agency, of the nation's research programs in high energy physics, nuclear physics and fusion energy sciences, as well as being the Federal government's largest source of support for materials and chemical sciences. The Office of Science also supports unique or critical pieces of U.S. research in scientific computation, climate change, geophysics, genomics, and the life sciences.


*******************

Article 407

For more than one hundred years, the Nation has relied upon the Technology Administration's National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) for scientific and technical expertise to promote economic growth, commerce and trade, and national security. The quality of NIST work is exemplified by the awards in 1997 and 2001 of the Nobel Prize, the world's ultimate recognition in science, to two NIST scientists -- Bill Phillips in Gaithersburg, Maryland, and Eric Cornell in Boulder, Colorado. The work they are leading in super-cold matter and the strange nature of quantum mechanics is driving whole new areas of science and technology, from atomic clocks that do not gain or lose more than a billionth of a second in thirty years, to the potential for unimaginably powerful computers based on individual atoms, to new forms of telecommunications that provide the ultimate in information security.

The President's request for the NIST Laboratories includes an increase of $12.7 million (for a total of $340.8 million) to strengthen the national measurements and standards infrastructure that enables innovation and economic growth. The request will enable NIST to expand its work in the areas of nanotechnology, advanced information technology, and health care diagnostics - all areas with broad economic impact.

NIST will expand its program in nanotechnology, the so-called "tiny revolution" in technology, with a $7.7 million increase (for a total of $62.0 million). Nearly all industrial sectors plan to exploit this emerging technology, and most of these plans call for appropriately scaled measurements and standards, which is NIST's specialty. NIST closely coordinates its nanotechnology work with other Federal agencies through the President's National Nanotechnology Initiative, or NNI. NIST appropriately has the lead in providing the measurements and standards infrastructure for the NNI.

The request also includes an increase of $3.0 million (for a total of $7.3 million) to build on NIST's world-class expertise in quantum computing and communications. This effort, with teams led by NIST's two Nobel laureates, is developing revolutionary means of making calculations much more quickly than traditional electronic computers will ever be able to do. NIST scientists already have made the working elements of quantum computers based on individual atoms.


*******************

Article 408

The statistics on the prevalence of avoidable health complications that often involve the use of FDA-regulated products presents a huge challenge for our agency and for all of us. The misuse of pharmaceuticals is associated with thousands of deaths and about 3 million hospital admissions a year. In 2000, the economic cost of drug-associated errors alone was estimated to reach over $75 billion a year. Finding creative ways to prevent even a fraction of the preventable medical errors, will improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of Americans, and greatly reduce the burden on our health care systems.

There are more health care products in use than ever before. As one example, it is estimated that our pharmacists will fill 3.1 billion prescriptions by the end of this year, 60 percent more than ten years ago. Manufacturers everywhere are increasingly presenting their new pharmaceuticals for FDA's review and approval: 60 percent of the world's drugs are introduced first in the United States. And R&D pipelines hold the promise of dramatic advancements in treatment, thanks to breakthroughs in genomics, proteomics, nanotechnologies, and other biomedical sciences. In the years ahead, we can look forward to more sophisticated, individualized, and effective treatments. This is a good thing for our citizens but brings with it increasing challenges for FDA.

The FDA does a great deal to improve health outcomes as part of its core mission to protect and promote the public health. Our agency works to ensure the safety and effectiveness of new medications and medical devices by helping guide their development, evaluating the results of clinical trials, and monitoring the performance of the approved products after they reach the market. The human and economic benefits of these medical products can be enormous. The reduction in the death rate caused by heart attacks in the last couple of decades was in part made possible by new treatments approved by our agency, including such breakthrough products as ACE inhibitors, so-called "clot- busting" drugs, and stents that have reduced the need for risky and costly surgeries.


*******************

Article 409

In the environmental area, we have seen the recent commercialization of a jet engine combustor that resulted from a NASA-sponsored demonstration to reduce NOx emissions by 50 percent compared to ICAO regulatory standards, and we have recently completed sector testing of a combustor concept that reduces NOx by 67 percent. We have also seen the commercialization of noise reduction technologies, like serrated nozzles that reduce jet noise by 3 decibels, equivalent to half the sound energy. Overall, we have demonstrated 5 decibels of integrated noise reductions compared with the 1997 state-of-the- art and have identified technologies for 5 decibels of additional reductions.

We are making significant progress on more breakthrough technologies. We recently demonstrated key processes and methods for the development of nanotube reinforced polymer composites that would provide revolutionary improvements in structural strength-to-weight ratios. We've also demonstrated advanced aerodynamics flow control techniques that would allow highly efficient and simpler vehicle controls and high-lift systems. Significant progress continues in the areas of autonomy and intelligent, reconfigurable flight controls. All of these technologies represent steps on the path to a new generation of safe, smart, environmentally benign aircraft.

A Balanced Portfolio

NASA invests in long-term, high-risk, high-payoff research in pre- commercial technologies in which industry cannot invest and in both nearer term and longer-term research focused on public good issues such as environmental compatibility, safety, and air traffic management.


*******************

Article 410

In addition, we are working with the Administration on further legislative tools, such as enhanced annual leave, that may be forwarded later this session.

The reduction in NASA's workforce during the 1990's has led to an imbalance of skills; too may in some areas not enough in emerging technologies (e.g., nanotechnology). In addition, NASA is confronted with convergence of three trends: 1. reduction in number of science and engineering graduates; 2. increased competition from traditional aerospace sector and non-aerospace sector for this reduced pool of scientists and engineers; and 3. increasing number of experienced NASA employees eligible for retirement.

NASA needs to have better tools to recruit new hires, retain existing mid-level workforce, and reconfigure the workforce to meet emerging needs.

Vision And Mission


*******************

Article 411

REP. HOBSON (?): Mr. Secretary, if I can just interrupt you for a second. I drove one yesterday and it's fine. And I wasn't born yesterday.

(Laughter)

MR. ABRAHAM: Even better, sir. Over the next 5 years we propose to spend about $1.7 billion for the Freedom Car and Hydrogen Fuel initiatives, which is more than double the '03 spending, and with the goal of advancing a commercialization decision by 15 years, so that a decision might be made by the year 2015. Mr. Chairman, obviously the department's responsibilities are very wide ranging, and I don't have the opportunity here to comment on all of the different items, but among the things I haven't had the chance to elaborate on are the programs to promote domestic energy production and international energy trade and investment, programs to further develop renewable energy and to increase energy efficiency, the work of our Office of Science, on which we rely so much, that office is pioneering the theoretical and practical advance of scientific knowledge through its work on the human genome, on nanoscience and nanotechnology, on computing and networking and on fusion, which we plan to buttress by joining the International Thermo Experimental Reactor Project.

And these programs offer the prospect of invaluable short and long term benefits for people of this country and the world. And obviously there are many other programs beyond these which I could comment on, time does not allow that, so I'll bring my presentation to an end, and obviously I'm prepared to answer questions. I thank the committee again and all of you for working with us as we've moved through a number of challenges in recent months and years.


*******************

Article 412

Breakthrough Energy Sources

In the 21st century, new energy sources must be developed in order to achieve revolutionary new air and space capabilities. As President Bush recently outlined in his State of the Union address, we are moving towards a hydrogen economy. Use of hydrogen fuel cells in aircraft technology can be an important step in establishing a hydrogen economy that could free the U.S. from dependence on foreign sources of energy.

Nanotechnology

Not only did microtechnology lead to computers and the Internet during the second half of the 20th century, but it also brought us to the beginning of an exciting scientific revolution we now know as Nanotechnology. Recent discoveries indicate that at the nano scale, devices and systems have completely different electrical, mechanical, magnetic and optical properties from those of the same material in bulk form. This could lead to such an increase in material strength that could revolutionize aerospace vehicle structural design and performance.

The benefits of research may not be realized for decades but are critical to innovation and to keeping the nation's intellectual capital fresh and vibrant.


*******************

Article 413

To Inspire the Next Generation of Explorers... leads us to NASA goals for working with educators, K-12 students, and the university community, to ensure that the aerospace industry has access to a scientifically and technically trained workforce as recommended in Chapter 8 of the Commission report.

As only NASA can... leads us to the unique basic research and technology development NASA performs to fulfill our Mission, particularly in areas that offer the potential for breakthroughs in critical aerospace capabilities such as propulsion and power, information technology, and nanotechnology as recommended in Chapter 9 of the Commission report.

Early last year NASA unveiled an Aeronautics Blueprint that outlined a new and revolutionary technology vision to address the aviation challenges we face in the 21st Century. The four critical areas for technological investment identified in the Blueprint and also included in the Commission's areas of emphasis are: a Digital Airspace, Revolutionary Vehicles, Aviation Safety and Security, and a State-of- the-Art Educated Workforce. These Blueprint elements have been incorporated in NASA's 2003 Strategic Plan.


*******************

Article 414

The budget includes an increase in emphasis on the physical sciences. The physical sciences not only spur understanding of the universe, they are the theoretical foundation for a host of new and promising technologies. Physical science research also offers education and training opportunities vital for a technologically advanced society.

The budget also highlights investments in important research conducted by multiple federal agencies in a coordinated fashion. Increasingly, the cutting edge of research is not cleanly confined to a specific science discipline, but spans a variety of disciplines or applications. Well-managed interagency collaboration takes advantage of the vast pool of capabilities represented across the federal government while minimizing new organizational structures. The high-priority multi-agency R&D initiatives for FY2004 are: combating terrorism R&D, network and information technology, nanotechnology, climate change research and technology and education research.

Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) The Office of Science and Technology Policy has primary responsibility in the White House to coordinate interagency research initiatives. The FY2004 request for OSTP is $7,027,000. This figure includes funding not previously reflected in OSTP's budget for rent and security costs associated with our relocation from the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. It also includes increases associated with responsibilities this office has in the area of National Security Emergency Preparedness communications that have received new emphasis. Total new funding in these categories represents $1,542,000 of our FY2004 request. For purposes of comparison, if you back out the new funding not previously required, OSTP's FY2004 request would represent less than a 2.2% increase over FY2003 levels for the core OSTP mission.


*******************

Article 415

To Inspire the Next Generation of Explorers . . . leads us to NASA goals for working with educators, K-12 students, and the university community, to ensure that the aerospace industry has access to a scientifically and technically trained workforce as recommended in Chapter 8 of the Commission report.

As only NASA can . . . leads us to the unique basic research and technology development NASA performs to fulfill our Mission, particularly in areas that offer the potential for breakthroughs in critical aerospace capabilities such as propulsion and power, information technology, and nanotechnology as recommended in Chapter 9 of the Commission report. Early last year NASA unveiled an Aeronautics Blueprint that outlined a new and revolutionary technology vision to address the aviation challenges we face in the 21st Century. The four critical areas for technological investment identified in the Blueprint and also included in the Commission's areas of emphasis are: a Digital Airspace, Revolutionary Vehicles, Aviation Safety and Security, and a State- of-the-Art Educated Workforce. These Blueprint elements have been incorporated in NASA's 2003 Strategic Plan.


*******************

Article 416

Use of hydrogen fuel cells as auxiliary power in aircraft technology can be an important step in establishing a hydrogen economy that can free the U.S. from dependence on foreign sources of energy. Hydrogen fuel cells, of course, have always been an important part of our human space technology.

Another area is nanotechnology. Not only did microchip technology lead to computers and the Internet during the second half of the 20th century, but it also brought us to the beginning of an exciting scientific revolution we now know as nanotechnology.

Recent discoveries indicate that, at the nano scale, devices and systems have completely different electrical, mechanical, magnetic and optical properties from those of the same material in bulk form. This could lead to such an increase in material strength that it could really revolutionize aerospace vehicle structural design and performance.


*******************

Article 417

The administration is following its national hydrogen energy road map, as a result of a 12-month collaborative effort between industry and government to help us chart, as well as ultimately realize our objectives. Over the next five years we'll spend about $1.7 billion for Freedom Car and the hydrogen fuel initiative, doubling the fiscal year '03 spending, or near doubling it, and advancing a commercialization decision from the year 2030 to the year 2015.

Mr. Chairman, the department's responsibilities are very wide ranging, and in the time I have today I can only give a glimpse of the work that we are doing. The many important programs I have not had time to mention in these opening remarks include programs designed to promote domestic energy production and international energy trade and investment; are projects to further develop wind, solar, hydro power, biomass technologies, and to increase industrial, commercial and residential energy work and energy efficiency, as well as the work of our Office of Science, on which we rely to fulfill all of our responsibilities. The Office of Science is pioneering the theoretical and practical advance of scientific knowledge through its work on the human genome, on nano science and nanotechnology, on computing and networking, and on fusion, which we plan to buttress by joining the international thermal nuclear experimental reactor project. These programs offer the prospect of invaluable short-term and long-term benefits to the people of America and the world.

Mr. Chairman, there are many other productive and promising initiatives under way at the Department of Energy. I look forward to discussing them with you here today in the question and answer session. I thank you for the opportunity to participate.


*******************

Article 418

MR. EBEL: I was attracted very much by a line in the president's State of the Union message, where he said that he hoped an American born that day would be able to drive a hydrogen fuel cell car, the first car that he would drive. I think eventually our demand for oil will decline before its physical supply becomes a problem. I think a hydrogen based economy is the future, not only for the United States but for almost all oil consuming countries. How quickly can we get to that future? What stands in the way? Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, the oil producers of the Persian Gulf, because all they have is oil. And they're going to work that oil in a way to reduce incentives to go to a hydrogen fuel based economy, to develop alternative forms of energy, always make oil just a bit more attractive than other forms. Because once the demand for oil is replaced by something else, what future do they have? Would we be any longer interested in them? Absolutely not.

MR. SIMMONS: I would think, Senator, that there are some very long-term things that are going to take an awful lot of R&D from someone, the role of nanotechnology in future sources of energy that could be phenomenal but the -- some time your committee should invite Dr. Smalley from Rice, who was the Nobel laureate in nanotechnology. He has some phenomenal ideas, but he's very specific, we're going to 30 years, it's a long bridge. I think in the meantime we could basically do some better work on things like the diesel engine. Europe has had some radical breakthroughs in the diesel engine. Thirty to 50 percent more fuel efficiency apparently, and it's not something that needs to be developed, but there's some technical issues of incorporating that here. So I think part of the issue in the R&D we're going to have to spend in the next 10 or 15 or 20 years is making sure we're focusing on the right things, and not throwing too much money at things that might not make a big difference, and throwing the money at the things that are real long-term, and you have to start today -- or real short term that don't have monumental barriers before they make an impact.

SEN. ALEXANDER: Thank you.

MR. CAVANEY: Senator, I think, to follow on what Matt had said, government has a very important role to play in the pre-competitive nature. So, the kinds of things that have the long-terms, that require the big bucks. Hydrogen is certainly an area where they can do that. 

*******************

Article 419

But before I do that, I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the terrible and tragic loss of the shuttle Columbia and its crew just 12 days ago. The seven astronauts who perished aboard the shuffle were courageous and brilliant men and women dedicated to forever pushing back the boundaries of our scientific understanding. I should point out that NASA and NOAA have a long history as partners in the development of our environmental satellite systems. As part of our routine support to the NASA shuttle program and satellite launches, NOAA's National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service (NESDIS) and National Weather Service (NWS) provide specialized services, including space-based observations and weather forecasts. In addition, NOAA's NWS transmitted emergency broadcasts in Texas and Louisiana via the NOAA Weather Radio. NOAA will continue to provide high resolution weather data and satellite services as needed for the Columbia shuttle investigation.

Fostering Economic Growth. Economic growth is a central theme for the FY 2004 President's Budget. The Administration firmly believes that the Government's job is to remove obstacles that inhibit faster economic growth and innovation. President Bush is fond of saying that Government does not create wealth, people do -- so, our job is to create the right environment for businesses to flourish and prosper. America leads the world in developing and commercializing new ideas. This is critical to our economic security, national security and homeland security. To continue the Nation's leadership in science and technology in the 21st Century, the Administration is requesting funding for NIST to support economic growth by enhancing programs, such as those involving nanotechnology, quantum computing, and health care quality assurance, ln addition, the Administration's FY 2004 request supports NOAA's efforts to promote economic growth by improving the efficiency of maritime shipping and through developing forecast products that can be used to support economic decisions.

Homeland Security. The Administration is, of course, committed to protecting the Nation. We have a responsibility to protect our country from great dangers and to provide all Americans with a safe and secure place to live. Our strong national science and technology base is a key to homeland security and a crucial advantage in the war on terrorism. To contribute to this goal, the Department requests funding for NIST to provide the measurements and standards infrastructure necessary to provide for homeland security. The resources will fund the development and dissemination of standards for safety and security of buildings, for biometric identification systems, and for radiation detection systems and radiation-based security systems. The homeland security budget request for NOAA supports upgrading the NOAA weather radio operation to an All Hazards Warning Network, as well as the improvement of physical security at 149 NWS facilities.


*******************

Article 420

Mr. Chairman, consider how key initiatives undertaken in the FY2 04 budget are mutually supportive of the Department's overarching mission and reflect the need to set priorities:

- The President's Hydrogen Fuel Initiative - a major effort toward zero emissions and energy independence -- looks toward critical research and development efforts to develop fuel cell technology, and to find ways to produce and distribute hydrogen. - Our request for carbon sequestration, a critical effort in our climate change program, is forty percent greater than last year. Here too, we look to science and technology, some of it extraordinarily exciting, to help us address a host of concerns. - This year's request represents a major restructuring of our technology programs focused on the nuclear fuel cycle. With our Advanced Fuel Cycle Initiative the Secretary is challenging our department's best scientists to help devise a new approach to establishing a safe, sustainable, and proliferation resistant future for nuclear energy. Our nuclear programs are also integrated across DOE R&D portfolio, including improving the repository at Yucca Mountain, and will support our hydrogen fuels initiatives. - We are also committed to leapfrogging today's energy choices with advanced concepts such as fusion. The President has announced that we will enter negotiations on ITER, to explore the next critical step in bringing electricity from fusion energy to the grid. If fusion proves successful, it could be the dominant new energy source for the end of trrs century and beyond. - The Department is continuing its work as a critical part of the President's initiative on nanoscience. As the Chairman has noted, the Department is a major contributor in the nanotechnology field, and we intend to continue our leadership role by fully funding the construction of five nanoscience centers. These will be unique and essential facilities to help us realize the remarkable promise of nanotechnology. These initiatives work together. For example, materials work from nanoscience will contribute to advanced fuel cell work, and fusion will one day perhaps give us the hydrogen we need to run those fuel cells.

We are fortunate to have a strong and well recognized global technology leadership role. As will become clear in the testimony that follows, many of the technologies that contribute to energy independence also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The President's National Climate Change Technology Initiative (NCCTI) will help inventory and prioritize all climate change activities within the $1.6 billion worth of technology R&D that is included in the scope of the Climate Change Technology Program (CCTP), including clean coal, natural gas and other carbon management activities in fossil energy R&D. Within the CCTP the National Climate Change Technology Initiative (NCCTI) Competitive Solicitation program the budget requests $40 million to competitively award cost-share projects to research and develop technology that can help avoid, reduce, or sequester, greenhouse gases emissions.


*******************

Article 421

Because the Congress has so delayed making its spending decisions for this year, it's virtually impossible to know how to interpret the Administration's proposal for next year. I hope we can begin to sort that out today.

If nothing else, the appropriations delay may give the Administration time to reconsider some of its budget proposals. There are many positive aspects of the budget request - like new laboratory money for the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and reasonable increases for the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and a healthy increase for the National Nanotechnology Initiative.

But there's much to cause distress as well - like the virtual elimination of the Advanced Technology Program (ATP) and the Manufacturing Extension Program (MEP), and flat funding for the Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science. I may have said this last year as well, but the concern expressed for the physical sciences in the budget reminds me a little bit of the old joke about the will that said, "To Joe, who I said I would mention in my will, 'hello, Joe.'" Sympathy won't fund labs.


*******************

Article 422

The budget includes an increase in emphasis on the physical sciences. The physical sciences not only spur understanding of the universe, they are the theoretical foundation for a host of new and promising technologies. Physical science research also offers education and training opportunities vital for a technologically advanced society.

The budget also highlights investments in important research conducted by multiple federal agencies in a coordinated fashion. Increasingly, the cutting edge of research is not cleanly confined to a specific science discipline, but spans a variety of disciplines or applications. Well-managed interagency collaboration takes advantage of the vast pool of capabilities represented across the federal government while minimizing new organizational structures. The high-priority multi-agency R&D initiatives for FY2004 are: combating terrorism R&D, network and information technology, nanotechnology, climate change research and technology and education research.

AGENCY BUDGET HIGHLIGHTS

The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) has primary responsibility in the White House to coordinate interagency research initiatives, so I will concentrate my testimony on those initiatives and give only brief highlights of the budgets of several agencies within this committee's jurisdiction.


*******************

Article 423

But before I do that, I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the terrible and tragic loss of the shuttle Columbia and its crew just 12 days ago. The seven astronauts who perished aboard the shuttle were courageous and brilliant men and women dedicated to forever pushing back the boundaries of our scientific understanding. I should point out that NASA and NOAA have a long history as partners in the development of our environmental satellite systems. As part of our routine support to the NASA shuttle program and satellite launches, NOAA's National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service (NESDIS) and National Weather Service (NWS) provide specialized services, including space-based observations and weather forecasts. In addition, NOAA's NWS transmitted emergency broadcasts in Texas and Louisiana via the NOAA Weather Radio. NOAA will continue to provide high resolution weather data and satellite services as needed for the Columbia shuttle investigation.

Fostering Economic Growth. Economic growth is a central theme for the FY 2004 President's Budget. The Administration firmly believes that the Government's job is to remove obstacles that inhibit faster economic growth and innovation. President Bush is fond of saying that Government does not create wealth, people do -- so, our job is to create the right environment for businesses to flourish and prosper. America leads the world in developing and commercializing new ideas. This is critical to our economic security, national security and homeland security. To continue the Nation's leadership in science and technology in the 21st Century, the Administration is requesting funding for NIST to support economic growth by enhancing programs, such as those involving nanotechnology, quantum computing, and health care quality assurance. In addition, the Administration's FY 2004 request supports NOAA's efforts to promote economic growth by improving the efficiency of maritime shipping and through developing forecast products that can be used to support economic decisions.

Homeland Security. The Administration is, of course, committed to protecting the Nation. We have a responsibility to protect our country from great dangers and to provide all Americans with a safe and secure place to live. Our strong national science and technology base is a key to homeland security and a crucial advantage in the war on terrorism. To contribute to this goal, the Department requests funding for NIST to provide the measurements and standards infrastructure necessary to provide for homeland security. The resources will fund the development and dissemination of standards for safety and security of buildings, for biometric identification systems, and for radiation detection systems and radiation-based security systems. The homeland security budget request for NOAA supports upgrading the NOAA weather radio operation to an All Hazards Warning Network, as well as the improvement of physical security at 149 NWS facilities.


*******************

Article 424

We have been steadily increasing stipend levels from a low of $15,000 in 1999, and it's working. Applications for graduate fellowships increased by 19 percent between 2001 and 2002. This year, we are requesting an increase to $30,000. And, we will also increase the number of fellowships.

Opportunities to advance knowledge have never been greater than they are today. NSF invests in emerging areas of research that hold exceptional potential to strengthen U.S. world leadership in areas of global economic and social importance. This year, we are requesting funding for six of these priority areas: biocomplexity, information technology, nanoscale science and engineering, mathematical sciences, human and social dynamics, and the 21st century workforce.

The budget includes a $100 million dollar request for research in Biocomplexity in the Environment. This investment will continue support for microbial genome sequencing and the ecology of infectious diseases, two areas that are of vital importance to the nation's anti-terrorism efforts. Research that charts the interactions among physical, human, and other living systems, will improve our ability to understand and manage our environment. The development of new technologies and tools rounds out this investment.

As the lead agency in two of the Administration's top interagency R&D efforts, NSF has provided an investment of $724 million in Networking and Information Technology Research and Development and $249 million in the National Nanotechnology Initiative.

Our priority area investment in Information Technology Research of $303 million will advance every field of science and add to our economic prospects. We propose to expand fundamental research in high-end computation and large-scale networking. Other investments address the need for safe and dependable information systems for national security and consumer protection. To reap the educational benefits of the information revolution, we plan to focus on the use of cutting-edge IT research in the classroom.

The emerging field of nanoscale science and engineering promises a revolution at least as far-reaching as the one we've witnessed in information, computer and communications technologies. The ability to manipulate and control matter at the atomic and molecular levels will open new possibilities in materials and manufacturing, medicine, environment and energy, and national security. As the lead agency in the National Nanotechnology Initiative, NSF is requesting $249 million to expand basic research on new materials, biological systems at the nanoscale, and quantum computing. We will address the need to build capacity through investments in centers, training programs, and equipment. Research on the social and educational impacts of nanotechnology can prepare us to make the best use of new applications.

Mathematics is the lingua franca, or as I like to say, the Esperanto of science and engineering. It leads us to new and deeper insights in every discipline. We propose to invest $90 million in the Mathematical Sciences priority area to pursue fundamental research in the mathematical sciences and statistics, and programs that will bring cutting-edge mathematical and statistical techniques to all fields.



*******************

Article 425

We are also committed to leapfrogging today's energy choices with advanced concepts such as fusion. The President has announced that we will enter negotiations on ITER, to explore the next critical step in bringing electricity from fusion energy to the grid. If fusion proves successful, it could be the dominant new energy source for the end of this century and beyond.

The Department is continuing its work as a critical part of the President's initiative on nanoscience. As the Chairman has noted, the Department is a major contributor in the nanotechnology field, and we intend to continue our leadership role by fully funding the construction of five nanoscience centers. These will be unique and essential facilities to help us realize the remarkable promise of nanotechnology.

These initiatives work together. For example, materials work from nanoscience will contribute to advanced fuel cell work, and fusion will one day perhaps give us the hydrogen we need to run those fuel cells.

We are fortunate to have a strong and well recognized global technology leadership role. As will become clear in the testimony that follows, many of the technologies that contribute to energy independence also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The President's National Climate Change Technology Initiative (NCCTI) will help inventory and prioritize all climate change activities within the $1.6 billion worth of technology R&D that is included in the scope of the Climate Change Technology Program (CCTP), including clean coal, natural gas and other carbon management activities in fossil energy R&D. Within the CCTP the National Climate Change Technology Initiative (NCCTI) Competitive Solicitation program the budget requests $40 million to competitively award cost-share projects to research and develop technology that can help avoid, reduce, or sequester, greenhouse gases emissions.


*******************

Article 426

And just -- once the demand for oil is replaced by something else, what future do they have? Would we be any longer interested in them? Absolutely not.

SIMMONS: I would think, Senator, that there are some very long- term things that are going to take an awful lot of R&D from someone -- the role of nanotechnology in future sources of energy that could be phenomenal, but the -- sometime your committee should invite Dr. Smalley from Rice, who is the Nobel laureate in nanotechnology. He has some phenomenal ideas, but he's very specific -- it will only take 30 years. It's a long bridge.

I think in the meantime, we could basically do some better work on things like the diesel engine. Europe has had some radical breakthroughs in the diesel engine -- 30 to 50 percent more fuel efficiency, apparently. And it's not something that needs to be developed, but it's just -- but there are some technical issues of incorporating that here.


*******************

Article 427

And now, the next point I want to make is there's a lot of good news in health care. The 21st century is going to see stunning advances in health care as a result of the sequencing of the human genome. We've already found the genetic variances that are the highest predictors of breast cancer, getting very close on Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. Eventually it will really help us in dealing with diabetes.

And the development of nanotechnology, into which we, just when I was president, sunk about a billion dollars of your tax money, have raised the prospects of new diagnostic technologies to identify tumors when they are presently unidentifiable, raising that prospect that virtually all cancers will become curable.

I fully expect that some time within the next 20 years that the average life expectancy for children born in the United States will rise above 90 years.


*******************

Article 428

Mr. Goldin praised the President's proposed funding level of $14.5 billion, a two percent increase over FY01. He said that it contained a disciplined budget plan for Space Station development and operation including management reform and budget restructuring. In addition, the budget would advance the privatization of Space Shuttle activities, create a more robust Mars Exploration Program and increase funding for a second generation Earth Observing System. Science and technology funding would make up 42 percent of NASA's overall funding.

Dr. Colwell stated that NSF requested $4.47 billion, which is $56 million more than last year. Highlights include: the Math and Science Partnerships, a $200 million initiative which will join states and local school districts with institutions of higher learning; $8 million to increase the stipends in its graduate research fellowships; and $20 million for the Interdisciplinary Mathematics Research Program. Four areas of emerging opportunity are also emphasized biocomplexity in the environment, information technology, nanoscale science and engineering, and learning for the 21st century.

Dr. Decker described their $3.16 billion request to support the basic research that underpins the science, energy, environment and national security missions of the DOE. He addressed how the DOE determines priorities across scientific disciplines, how they coordinate their scientific research with that of other federal agencies, and he gave some examples of promising areas of research in their budget request (including Genomes to Life, Physics of the Standard Model and beyond, and Nanoscale Science).

Mr. Gudes described NOAA's budget request of $3.152 billion, a decrease of $61 million from current levels. The primary focus of the budget is investing in people ($60 million) and infrastructure. Other important programs included Severe Weather Forecasts, U.S. Weather Research Program, the national Polar Orbiting Environmental Satellite System, climate forecasting and ocean exploration. g7344.1(f) Acid Rain: The State of the Science and Research Needs for the Future


*******************

Article 429

TITLE21st CENTURY NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT

The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, to which was referred the bill (S. 2945) to authorize appropriations for nanoscience, nanoengineering, and nanotechnology research, and for other purposes, having considered the same, reports favorably thereon without amendment and recommends that the bill do pass.

Purpose of the Bill

The purpose of the bill, as reported, is to authorize a coordinated inter-agency program that will support long-term nanoscale research and development which will lead to potential breakthroughs in technologies related to a number of areas, including materials and manufacturing, nano-electronics, medicine and healthcare, the environment, energy, chemicals, biotechnology, agriculture, information technology, and national and homeland security.

Background and Needs

Nanoscience, often referred to as nanotechnology, is an emerging scientific field which aims to create devices, materials, and systems at the nanometer scale. A nanometer is one billionth of a meter (10G2-9 m), or roughly 100,000 times smaller than a strand of human hair. Nano-technologists are studying and designing materials and systems at this sub-microscopic level.

Nanotechnology is a multi-disciplinary field, combing all aspects of the traditional sciences. Nanotechnology requires expertise in engineering, chemistry, physics, materials science, biology, and computer science. A field like quantum computing, the next stage in the information technology revolution, builds on knowledge and achievements in quantum mechanics and computer science to develop systems with processing powers that are several orders of magnitude greater than currently possible.

The future of nanotechnology is touted as the next industrial revolution. It will enable scientists to create advanced materials and systems. For example, in combining an understanding of a material's properties and the ability to manipulate atoms, scientists are expected to be able to produce a substance that is stronger than steel, yet as light as a feather. Nanotechnology is still in its infancy. It has recently passed theoretic feasibility and is entering the laboratory. Breakthroughs in nanotechnology promise to fundamentally alter the way we manufacture products.

According to the NanoBusiness Alliance, the nanotechnology market currently generates $45 billion a year in worldwide sales. This is projected to grow to $700 billion by 2008. A more conservative prediction by the National Science Foundation (NSF) is that the market for nanotechnology will reach $1 trillion by 2015. The potential gains are immense. It is key for the United States to maintain an intellectual lead and use that knowledge to maintain its commercial edge.

The National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) was created in 2001 with the goal of coordinating the Federal government's research and development efforts in nanotechnology. Federal support is crucial because nanotechnology is so nascent that few companies will invest in it because the pay-offs are so far into the future. Venture capitalists also shy away from nanotechnology for the same reasons. Universities tend not to have sufficient funds to engage in such exploratory work. Only the Federal government can bridge the gap for the next few decades before this research can be applied widely to commercial products. The Federal government has a history of sponsoring research that opens new frontiers (atomic physics, space exploration, and development of the Internet). Many believe that nanotechnology is the next such frontier.

Legislative History

On September 17, 2002, the Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space conducted a hearing on the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act which was introduced by Senators Wyden, Allen, Lieberman, Mikulski, Landrieu, and Clinton the same day. This hearing included the following witnesses: The Honorable Richard Russell, Associate Director for Technology, Office of Science and Technology Policy; Mr. F. Mark Modzelewski, Executive Director of the NanoBusiness Alliance; Dr. Samuel I. Stupp, Board of Trustees Professor, Materials Science, Chemistry, and Engineering and Director of the Institute for Bioengineering and Nanoscience in Advanced Medicine, Northwestern University; Dr. R. Stanley Williams, Fellow and Director of Quantum Science Research, Hewlett Packard; and Mr. Nathan Swami, Executive Director of Initiative for Nanotechnology in Virginia, University of Virginia.

Summary of Major Provisions

Authorization of appropriations

S. 2945, as reported, would authorize appropriations for several government agencies for nanoscale science and technology research and development in the amount of $476 million for fiscal year (FY) 2003 and $547.3 million in FY 2004, for a total of $1.02 billion over the next two years, as follows:

[In millions of dollars]

2003 2004



National Science Foundation 221.0 254.1 475.15

Department of Energy 139.3 160.2 299.495

National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) 22.0 25.3 47.3

National Institutes of Health (NIH) 43.2 49.7 92.88

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 44.0 50.6 94.6

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 5.0 5.7 10.75

Department of Justice 1.4 1.6 3.01

Total 475.9 547.3 1,023.185

The funding level for FY 2003 reflects the President's requested level for these programs, and the FY 2004 level is fifteen percent higher than the FY 2003 request.

National Nanotechnology Research Program

S. 2945, as reported, would authorize the President to establish a National Nanotechnology Research Program (NNRP) with the goal of coordinating long-term Federal nanotechnology research and development. The program would build on the NNI, providing Federally funded research through participating government agencies. The NNRP would include: (1) grand challenges that will promote the advancement of the field; (2) regional interdisciplinary research centers that provide access to facilities for academia and industry; (3) the development of an adequate research infrastructure; (4) the creation of a Center for Ethical, Societal, Educational, Legal and Workforce Issues Related to Nanotechnology, which will support social science research on nanotechnology; and (5) the development of mechanisms to promote prompt technology transfers. Additionally, the program would emphasize the interdisciplinary nature of the nanotechnology field, and as a result, give preference to universities that show a commitment to interdisciplinary curricula and research.

Program coordination and management

S. 2945, as reported, would authorize the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) to oversee the planning, management and coordination of the NNRP. The NSTC would be required to coordinate the budget requests of, and provide guidance to, participating departments and agencies. The NSTC would submit an annual report to Congress detailing the goals, grand challenges, and program funding areas of the NNRP.

S. 2945 also would authorize the President to establish a Nanotechnology Advisory Panel, which would advise the President and the NSTC on goals and objectives of the NNRP. The Panel, modeled on the President's Information Technology Advisory Council, would be responsible for providing an annual evaluation of the NNRP, including a review of the program's management, a review of the balance of the research portfolio across agencies and disciplines, and recommendations for new grand challenges, and other charges. The President would have the authority to appoint up to 20 individuals to serve on the panel.

S. 2945, as reported, also would authorize the President to create a National Nanotechnology Coordination Office (NNCO) to serve as the primary point of contact for Federal nanotechnology activities. The NNCO would provide day-to-day technical and administrative support to assure full coordination of nanotechnology research efforts.

Estimated Costs

U.S. Congress, Congressional Budget Office,

Washington, DC, October 1, 2002.

Hon. Ernest F. Hollings, Chairman, Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has prepared the enclosed cost estimate for S. 2945, the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act.

If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Kathleen Gramp.

Sincerely, Barry B. Anderson

(For Dan L. Crippen, Director).

Enclosure.

S. 2945 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act

Summary: S. 2945 would authorize the appropriation of about $1 billion over the 2003-2004 period for civilian research and development (R&D) on nanotechnology (these technologies involve manipulating matter at the atomic level). It would allocate this funding among seven agencies: the National Science Foundation, Department of Energy, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Environmental Protection Agency, and the Department of Justice. Other provisions would establish programmatic and reporting guidelines for agency initiatives and create a scientific advisory board and office. Finally, S. 2945 would direct the Office of Science and Technology Policy to coordinate agency initiatives and sponsor biennial studies by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) on how R&D efforts in the United States compare with those of other countries.

Assuming appropriation of the authorized amounts, CBO estimates that implementing this bill would cost $989 million over the 2003-2007 period. CBO estimates that enacting S. 2945 would have no effect on direct spending or revenues.

S. 2945 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) and would impose no costs on state, local, or tribal governments. Public universities and agencies would benefit from grants to create interdisciplinary centers for research in nanotechnology. These entities may incur costs as a result of participating in the grant program, but such costs would be voluntary.

Estimated cost to the Federal Government: The estimated budgetary impact of S. 2945 is shown in the following table. The costs of this legislation fall within budget functions 250 (general science, space, and technology), 300 (natural resources and the environment), 376 (commerce and housing credit), 550 (health), and 750 (administration of justice).



By fiscal year, in millions of dollars

2003

2005

2007

SPENDING SUBJECT TO APPROPRIATION Nanotechnology spending under current law:

Budget authority1 424 0 0 0 0 0

Estimated outlays 344 231 54 15 7 2 Proposed changes:

Estimated authorization level 0 476 547 0 1 0

Estimated outlays 0 186 425 292 67 19 Nanotechnology spending under S. 2945:

Estimated authorization level1 424 476 548 0 1 0

Estimated outlays 344 417 479 307 74 21

1The 2002 level reflects agencies' estimates of the amount appropriated for that year for R&D on nanotechnology, a full-year appropriation for 2003 for these agencies has not yet been enacted.

Basis of estimate: For this estimate, CBO assumes that the amounts authorized will be appropriated near the start of each fiscal year and that outlays will occur at rates similar to those for other R&D programs at each agency. The amounts shown in the table reflect the amounts specified in S. 2945 for agency R&D and the cost of the NAS studies comparing the U.S. program to those of other countries. Based on information from the NAS, CBO estimates that each biennial study on international trends would cost about $1 million.

Intergovernmental or private-sector impact: S. 2945 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in UMRA and would impose no costs on State, local, or tribal governments. Public universities and agencies would benefit from grants to create interdisciplinary centers for research in nanotechnology. These entities may incur costs as a result of participating in the grant program, but such costs would be voluntary.

Estimate prepared by: Federal costs: Kathleen Gramp; impact on State, local, and tribal governments: Susan Sieg Tompkins; impact on the private sector: Jean Talarico.

Estimate approved by: Peter H. Fontaine, Deputy Assistant Director for Budget Analysis.

In compliance with subsection (b)(2) of paragraph 11 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee states that, in its opinion, it is necessary to dispense with the requirements of paragraph (1) of that subsection in order to expedite the business of the Senate.

Because S. does not create any new programs, the legislation will have no additional regulatory impact, and will result in no additional reporting requirements. The legislation will have no further effect on the number or types of individuals and businesses regulated, the economic impact of such regulation, the personal privacy of affected individuals, or the paperwork required from such individuals and businesses. regulatory impact statement

In accordance with paragraph 11(b) of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee provides the following evaluation of the regulatory impact of the legislation, as reported:

Number of persons covered

The Committee believes that the bill will not subject any individuals or businesses affected by the legislation to any additional regulation.

Economic impact

This legislation authorizes significant funding for research and development in nanoscale science and technology. However, it is not expected to have an adverse economic impact on the Nation.

Privacy

This legislation will not have a negative impact on the personal privacy of individuals.

Paperwork

This legislation will not increase paperwork requirements for private individuals or businesses. It would require the following reports: (1) an annual report by the Advisory Panel reviewing the program's success according to metrics established by the Panel; (2) a budget request by each Federal agency or department participating in the program submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB); (3) an annual report to Congress produced by the NSTC detailing the funding levels for each agency and department participating in the program; and (4) a triennial review conducted by the National Research Council evaluating the program's technical success, management and coordination, and funding levels.

Section-by-section Analysis

Section 1. Short title

Section 1 would set forth the short title of the bill as "The 21st Century Nanotechnology and Research Development Act."

Section 2. Findings

Section 2 would provide findings concerning the potential benefits of nanotechnology, including potential breakthroughs in materials and manufacturing, electronics, medicine and healthcare, the environment, energy, chemicals, biotechnology, agriculture, information technology, and national security.

Section 3. Purpose

This section would provide for the coordination of an inter-agency program to support long-term nanoscale research and development in certain key areas.

Section 4. National nanotechnology research program

Subsection (a) would require the President to establish a program to fund and coordinate basic nanoscience and engineering research among Federal agencies, academic laboratories, and the private sector.

Subsection (b) would identify the program's goals as to assure the United States remain a world leader in nanotechnology, which will help meet national goals for advances in health, manufacturing, technology, education, science, energy, the environment, and national security. The program also would consider philosophical, ethical, and other societal concerns in conjunction with the development of nanotechnology.

The appropriate agencies would fund 10 new "Interdisciplinary Nanotechnology Research Centers" in the range of $3 million to $5 million each year for 5 years. Grants could be renewed for another 5-year term following a positive performance review. The Centers would assist in reaching other priorities, including fundamental research, grand challenges, education, development and utilization of specific research tools, and promoting partnerships with industry. To the greatest extent possible, agencies participating in the program would establish geographically diverse centers, including at least one center participating in the NSF Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research. The program would be authorized to use underutilized manufacturing facilities in areas of high unemployment for production engineering and research testbeds for micron-scale technologies.

The Director of the NSF would be required to establish a new Center for Ethical, Societal, Educational, Legal, and Workforce Issues Related to Nanotechnology at a funding level of $5 million per year. The center would be required to track and research the societal, ethical, educational, legal, and workforce issues related to nanotechnology. The program, through its participating agencies, would ensure cooperation and collaboration with United States industries in all relevant research efforts and develop mechanisms to ensure prompt technology transfer.

Section 5. Program coordination and management

Subsection (a) would direct the NSTC to oversee the planning, management, and coordination of the Federal nanotechnology research and development program. The NSTC would be required to: establish a set of broad applications for nanotechnology; submit an annual report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Science; coordinate with Federal agencies, including the Department of Defense; consult with academic, industry, State and local governments and other appropriate groups in conducting nanotechnology research; establish an Information Services and Applications Council to promote access to and early application of new nanotechnologies; and measure the program's performance against its goals.

Subsection (b) would require the President to establish a National Nanotechnology Advisory Panel (NNAP) composed of up to 20 nanotechnology experts who are not Federal employees. The panel must represent a cross-section of views and expertise, including those related to the societal, ethical, educational, legal, and workforce issues in nanotechnology. The panel would meet not less than twice annually, issue an annual report measuring performance goals, and advise the President and inform Congress on matters relating to the NNRP.

Subsection (c) would require the President also to create a NNCO in which a full-time staff will provide day-to-day technical and administrative support to the Council and Advisory Panel, and be the point of contact for Federal nanotechnology activities for government organizations, academia, industry, professional societies, and others to exchange technical and programmatic information.

Subsection (d) would establish criteria for the report by the National Nanotechnology Advisory Panel. The annual report would review the program's technical success according to the program's stated goals; review the program's management, coordination, and funding levels; assess the degree of participation by minority-serving institutions; review policy issues arising from advances in nanotechnology; recommend new goals, grand challenges, and investments; and evaluate the application of new nanotechnologies to commercial and military products.

In addition, subsection (d) would require each Federal agency participating in the nanotechnology program, as part of its annual request for appropriations, to submit a report to OMB that identifies each element of its nanotechnology research that contributes directly to the nanotechnology program. In the President's annual budget request to Congress, OMB would be required to state the amount of funding for each agency related to nanotechnology research.

The NSTC would be required to submit an annual report to Congress regarding the nanotechnology research development program, including its goals, progress, and funding. No later than 6 months after enactment, the Director of the NSF would be required to enter into an agreement with the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a triennial evaluation of the Federal nanotechnology research and development program, and submit that study to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and House of Representatives Committee on Science. The first such evaluation shall be transmitted no later than 12 months after the date of enactment, with subsequent evaluations transmitted every 3 years thereafter.

Section 6. Authorization

NSF would be authorized to spend $221 million in FY 2003 and $254.15 million in FY 2004 to carry out the Act. Of the authorized funds, $40 million in FY 2003 and $50 million in FY 2004 would be allocated specifically for grants of up to $5 million each for multidisciplinary nanotechnology research centers. Of the authorized funds, $5 million would be authorized for a university-based Center for Societal, Ethical, Educational, Legal and Workforce Issues Related to Nanotechnology. Of the authorized funds, $5 million for each fiscal year would be provided to the NNCO and $5 million would be provided to the Science and Technology Policy Institute for use in competitive grants to address research areas which are not being adequately addressed by the agencies' current research programs.

To carry out the Act, other agencies would be authorized appropriations in the following amounts: Department of Energy: $139.3 for FY 2003 and $160.195 million for FY 2004; NASA: $22 million for FY 2003 and $25.3 million for FY 2004; National Institutes of Health: $43.2 million for FY 2003 and $49.68 million for FY 2004; National Institute of Standards and Technology: $44 million for FY 2003 and $50.6 million for FY 2004; Environmental Protection Agency: $5 million for FY 2003 and $5.75 million for FY 2004; Department of Justice: $1.4 million for FY 2003 and $1.61 million for FY 2004.

Section 7. Additional reports, studies, and plans

Subsection (a) would require the President, through NSTC, to enter into an agreement with the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a biennial study of the relative position of the United States compared to other nations with respect to nanotechnology research and development. The study would address the following issues: the current and likely future position of United States private, academic, and government sector research in nanotechnology relative to other nations; niche technology research areas where the United States is trailing other nations; and institutions, funding, and human resource factors that are critical to maintaining leadership status in this field. Not less than 6 months after receipt of each study, the NSTC would develop a plan for addressing issues raised in the study, including strategies for investment, strategies for promoting international research cooperation, and institutional and human-resource changes to be made to achieve or maintain leadership status in this field. NSTC will submit the National Research Council study and the NSTC plan to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Science, not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment and every 2 years thereafter.

As authorized by subsection (b), the NSF Director would be directed to encourage, conduct, coordinate, commission, collect, and disseminate studies on the societal, educational, and workforce implications of nanotechnology through the Center for Societal, Ethical, Educational, and Workforce Issues established under section 4 (c). The NSF Director would collect data to assess the anticipated nanotechnology workforce needs based on detailed occupation, industry, and firm characteristics, and determine the adequacy of the trained talent pool in the United States. The Director also would be required to submit reports on these issues to the President, the NSTC, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the House of Representatives Committee on Science not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act.

Section 8. Definitions

This section defines key terms in the Act, including "Advisory Panel", "fundamental research", "grand challenges", "interdisciplinary nanotechnology research center", "nanotechnology", "program", and "research infrastructure".

Changes in Existing Law

In compliance with paragraph 12 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee states that the bill as reported would make no change to existing law.

SUBJECT:  RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); LAWYERS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (76%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (75%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%); SPACE EXPLORATION (66%); 


*******************

Article 430

SUMMARY:
Recommends passage of S. 2945, the 21st Century Nanotechnology R&D Act to authorize an interagency program to support nanoscience research and nanotechnology development.
 
Nanoscience is the study and development of materials which have extremely small dimensions, as small as one-billionth of a meter. Applications include the use of nanoscale machines to improve manufacturing, biotechnology, and medicine.

CONTENT-NOTATION: Small scale science and technology, review

BILLS: 107 S. 2945

DESCRIPTORS:  
    ENGINEERING; FEDERAL INTERAGENCY RELATIONS; MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; MATERIALS SCIENCE; MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH; TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS; WEIGHTS AND MEASURES; 21ST CENTURY NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACT



*******************

Article 431

SEC. 246. DEFENSE NANOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

(a) Establishment. The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a defense nanotechnology research and development program.

(b) Purposes. The purposes of the program are as follows:

(1) To ensure United States global superiority in nanotechnology necessary for meeting national security requirements.

(2) To coordinate all nanoscale research and development within the Department of Defense, and to provide for interagency cooperation and collaboration on nanoscale research and development between the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies of the United States that are involved in nanoscale research and development.

(3) To develop and manage a portfolio of fundamental and applied nanoscience and engineering research initiatives that is stable, consistent, and balanced across scientific disciplines.

(4) To accelerate the transition and deployment of technologies and concepts derived from nanoscale research and development into the Armed Forces, and to establish policies, procedures, and standards for measuring the success of such efforts.

(5) To collect, synthesize, and disseminate critical information on nanoscale research and development.

(c) Administration. In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall act through the Director of Defense Research and Engineering, who shall supervise the planning, management, and coordination of the program. The Director, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of participating Defense Agencies and other departments and agencies of the United States, shall

(1) prescribe a set of long-term challenges and a set of specific technical goals for the program;

(2) develop a coordinated and integrated research and investment plan for meeting the long-term challenges and achieving the specific technical goals that builds upon the Department's increased investment in nanotechnology research and development and the National Nanotechnology Initiative; and

(3) develop memoranda of agreement, joint funding agreements, and other cooperative arrangements necessary for meeting the long-term challenges and achieving the specific technical goals.

(d) Annual Report. Not later than March 1 of each of 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007, the Director of Defense Research and Engineering shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the program. The report shall contain the following matters:

(1) A review of

(A) the long-term challenges and specific technical goals of the program; and

(B) the progress made toward meeting those challenges and achieving those goals.

(2) An assessment of current and proposed funding levels, including the adequacy of such funding levels to support program activities.

(3) A review of the coordination of activities within the Department of Defense, with other departments and agencies, and with the National Nanotechnology Initiative.


*******************

Article 432

Established in 1950, the NSF is the Federal agency designated to support academic research in the United States across the full range of scientific and engineering disciplines. To fulfill this responsibility, it supports grants for university and college research, and for science, engineering, and mathematics education, including K-12 and university education. The NSF provides grants for these purposes. It does not operate any research laboratories of its own.

The NSF is responsible for key national initiatives that will push the frontiers of scientific understanding like nanotechnology, biocomplexity, information technology research, mathematics research, and social and behavioral sciences. Nanotechnology, the next industrial revolution, has been identified as a national priority by many of the United States' strategic competitors such as European countries and Japan. Without appropriate funding, we risk falling behind other nations in this revolutionary research.

Over the past few years, Congress has invested heavily in biomedical science funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Nonetheless, recent advances in biomedical science have relied on advances in fields that are not traditionally funded by NIH, but rather fields that are funded by the NSF, such as computer science, physics, and chemistry. For example, the sequencing of the human genome was enabled by powerful computers networked in innovative ways. For this reason, increased funding for NSF would complement the already substantial Federal investment in NIH.


*******************

Article 433

29. An increase of $500,000 for the Advanced Space Propulsion Materials Research and Technology Center at Alabama A&M University.

30. An increase of $1,000,000 for high temperature nanotechnology research to be conducted at Glenn Research Center.

31. An increase of $1,000,000 for the computing, information, and communications technology program only for the development, demonstration and assessment of a mobile, wireless, broadband internet capability.

The Committee supports the mission of Wallops Flight Facility and that facility's fully capable test range for low-cost, aerospace-based, science and technology research through small to medium-sized missions. However, the Committee does not support the alteration of existing roles and responsibilities of NASA's flight centers.


*******************

Article 434

Research. The Committee recommendation includes $547,883,000 for materials sciences and engineering, and $220,146,000 for chemical sciences, geosciences, and energy biosciences, both the same as the budget request. Included within the material sciences and engineering account is $7,685,000 for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR), the same as the budget request and as the fiscal year 2002 funding level.

Construction. The Committee recommends the requested amount of $251,571,000, which includes $210,571,000 for construction of the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS), $11,000,000 for project engineering and design of Nanoscale Science Research Centers at Oak Ridge, Lawrence Berkeley, and Sandia National Laboratories, $24,000,000 to initiate construction of the Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and $6,000,000 for project engineering and design of the Linac Coherent Light Source at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center.

ADVANCED SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING RESEARCH

The Committee recommendation is $174,625,000, an increase of $5,000,000 over the budget request and $16,575,000 more than the funding in fiscal year 2002. The Committee is very concerned about the recent Japanese advances in scientific supercomputing, specifically with the Earth Simulator computer that is more capable by one or two orders of magnitude than the most advanced U.S. supercomputers. The Japanese advances suggest not only that the DOE approach to stimulating U.S. industry to produce high-performance computers using commodity components may not be working as well as hoped, but also means that U.S. scientists will be relegated to using second-class computing resources to support their research projects in the near future.

*******************

Article 435

The BEST Lab's major focus is on helping students, who wish to become to become teachers, better prepare for teaching math and science. It has been proven over and over again that teaching professionals must be truly comfortable teaching math and science concepts before they can excel in transferring their knowledge in math and science to their students. Using this concept and in partnership with NASA Langley's Research Center, NSU has hosted a series of summer pre-service teaching institutes and national conferences. These programs aim at increasing the ability and confidence of current and future teachers, who plan to teach at minority serving schools, to teach math and science. The pre- service teacher program, funded at almost $3 million over the past five years has been so successful that this past summer, NASA expanded its funding to include NASA Marshall, with Oakwood College as the cooperating HBCU, and NASA Stennis, with Xavier University of Louisiana as the cooperating institution. It is our intention to use these same cooperative concepts in our university's proposed laboratory school.

In 1994, NSU received a five year, $10 million grant from the Department of Energy and a three year, $1.2 million grant from NASA Langley to start the Center for Materials Research and develop a Masters program in Materials Science. The Center for Materials Research, which has received more than $16.4 million in Federal funding support over the past five years, now uses nanotechnology to produce organic photovoltaic materials for solar cells, powder laser materials for military and security identification, and photonics materials with potential for data storage, switching and other optical or communications applications. This NSU Center of Excellence demonstrates, if HBCUs are provided the capacity-building resources, we will succeed.

This year after a mandate from the Office of Civil Rights (OCR) Accord between Virginia and the federal government, signed in November 2001, Norfolk State University began structuring a masters degree, added to our ABET accredited bachelors in computer science (a program started many years ago through Title III funding); and, we are adding both bachelors and masters degrees in electronics and optical engineering. NSU is also funded by the National Science Foundation for the Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation, through the Washington, Baltimore, and Hampton Roads AMP. This outstanding National Science Foundation (NSF) program has produced over 200,000 minority professionals with degrees in math, technology and the sciences and is worthy of increased NSF funding. Building upon its strengths in computer science and electronics and optical engineering will help position NORFOLK STATE UNIVERSITY to excel in the education of African Americans in mathematics, science and technology.


*******************

Article 436

These centers could assist HBCUs in the development of multi-institutional research partnerships and consortia for research and educational activities in a broad array of disciplines, including mathematics, the physical and life sciences, the earth and environmental sciences, information technology and engineering.

NANOSCALE SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING

Nanoscale Science and Engineering has been funded since fiscal year 2001. The committee supports the expansion of this research initiative to create new centers and facilities which will explore nanoscale engineering.

PLANT GENOME RESEARCH

The Plant Genome Research Program was initiated in fiscal year 1998. It is part of a national plant genome research initiative established by the Office of Science and Technology Policy. The long-term goal of the plant genome program is to understand the structure, organization and function of plant genomes important to agriculture, the environment, energy, and health care. The committee supports the Foundation's requested increase in funding for this program and more in-depth understanding of the biological process in economically important plants. In supporting the goals of the plant genome program, the committee strongly urges NSF to award grants to institutions of higher education to establish regional plant genome and gene expression research centers that enhance the excellence of existing NSF programs and focuses on plants of economic importance. The committee anticipates NSF will develop research partnerships in particular supporting plant biotechnology targeted toward the needs of the developing world and encourages NSF to work in consort with the United States Agency for International Development in creating opportunities for United States research institutions to partner with research institutions in developing nations.


*******************

Article 437

Hearing before the Subcom on Science, Technology, and Space to examine potential applications of and policy issues and initiatives related to nanotechnology, including the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which coordinates nanotechnology research among Federal agencies.
 
Nanotechnology involvesthe development of materials which have extremely small dimensions, as small as one-billionth of a meter. Applications include the use of nanoscale machines to improve manufacturing, biotechnology, and medicine.
 
Supplementary material (p. 57-80) includes submitted statements and witnesses' written replies to Subcom questions.

CONTENT-NOTATION: Small scale science and technology, policy issues and initiatives

DESCRIPTORS:  
   SUBCOM ON SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND SPACE. SENATE;  TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS; ENGINEERING; MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; MATERIALS SCIENCE; MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH; FEDERAL INTERAGENCY RELATIONS

2005-S261-41 TESTIMONY NO: 1   Sept. 17, 2002. p. 7-55, 58-74.
 
WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   RUSSELL, RICHARD M., (Associate Director, Technology, Office of Science and Technology Policy)
   MODZELEWSKI, F. MARK, (Executive Director, NanoBusiness Alliance)
   STUPP, SAMUEL I., (Chairman, Committee for the Review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative, National Research Council)
   WILLIAMS, R. STANLEY, (Director, Quantum Science Research, Hewlett-Packard Co)
   SWAMI, NATHAN, (Executive Director, Initiative for Nanotechnology in Virginia)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Perspectives on the National Nanotechnology Initiative; explanation and potential applications of nanotechnnology; issues and recommendations related to development of the nanotechnology industry; concerns regarding technology transfers from universities to the private sector under the Bayh-Dole Act; views on nanotechnology promotion policies and related issues.
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   Small scale science and technology, policy issues and initiatives
 
TESTIMONY DESCRIPTORS:
   OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY; NANOBUSINESS ALLIANCE; NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL; HEWLETT-PACKARD CO.; INITIATIVE FOR NANOTECHNOLOGY IN VIRGINIA; GOVERNMENT AND BUSINESS; TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER; BAYH-DOLE ACT;

*******************

Article 438

September 17th, 2002

Mr. Chairman and members of the Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today to speak about the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI). Nanotechnology is research and development at the nanoscale - a scale on the order of 10-9 meters, or a thousandth of a millionth of a meter. To provide some perspective, this is approximately 1/100,000 the diameter of the average human hair. Research in nanotechnology is contributing to a fundamentally new understanding of the unique properties that occur on the nanoscale. The properties and governing physics of materials and artifacts at the nanoscale can differ significantly from those at more conventional scales. As a result, nanotechnology represents more than simply another step in the progression of technology miniaturization. 

Looking to the future, commercialization of nanotechnology is expected to lead to new products, and in some cases the creation of new markets, in applications as diverse as materials and manufacturing, electronics, medicine and healthcare, environment, energy, chemicals, biotechnology, agriculture, information technology, transportation, national security, and others. Nanotechnology will likely have a broad and fundamental impact on many sectors of the economy. Some have even suggested that this impact will surpass the combined impact of both biotech and information technology.

New discoveries are being made on a regular basis. Just last week (9/10/02), researchers at Hewlett Packard announced a nanotechnology breakthrough in molecular electronics. Through a joint federal/industry funded project at the University of California at Los Angeles, the team pioneered a method to fabricate nanoscale wires separated by a thousand molecules. This novel device represents a major breakthrough in memory storage density that heralds a new era in microelectronic miniaturization. It serves as a prime example of the promise - and the challenge - posed by nanotechnology. This includes the promise of new materials, new devices, and new processes that will enable continued growth in our high tech industries. But it also highlights the challenge of understanding nanoscale phenomena, reliably producing nanoscale structures and systems, and converting this new knowledge into new technologies that contribute to our economic prosperity.

Another example of great promise is the federally funded BioCOM chip under development at the University of California at Berkeley. This device combines elements of both the nano- and the micro-scale into a lab-on-a-chip package that provides a new tool for real-time sampling of blood for Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) screening. Though still in the prototype stage, this device, and others like it, promise to revolutionize medicine. These developments are leading to new sensors that will be utilized in medicine as well as homeland security, broadly contributing to healthcare, economic strength, and national security.

Nanotechnology is still at a very early stage of development. The role of federal R&D funding in this area is to provide the fundamental research underpinnings upon which future commercial nanoscale technologies will be based. Numerous challenges must be addressed before the envisioned promise of these technologies can be reached. These challenges include fundamental research to improve our basic understanding in several fields of science and engineering, as well as novel approaches toward synthesis, analysis and manufacturing of nanotechnology-based products. Because of the complexity, cost, and high risk associated with these issues, the private sector is often unable to assure itself of short-to-medium term returns on R&D investments. Consequently, industry is not likely to undertake the basic research investments necessary to overcome the technical barriers that currently face the nanotechnology field. The NNI program is structured to overcome these barriers so that America's industries will prosper from our investment in nanotechnology.

The President's FY 2003 budget represents a record request for federally funded R&D ($112 billion), an increase of eight percent over the previous investment. Because of its significant potential impact on the physical sciences, life sciences, and engineering--and more broadly on the U.S. economy and society-- nanotechnology is viewed by the Bush Administration as an important component of the federal research and development (R&D) portfolio. Funding for nanotechnology was increased seventeen percent in the FY 2003 request ($679 million). In the previous fiscal year, President Bush signed into law a thirty seven percent increase in the NNI budget (from $464 million to $579 million). The Administration's ongoing support for nanotechnology was articulated through a joint guidance memorandum issued to heads of Federal science and technology agencies from John H. Marburger III, Director of OSTP, and Mitchell Daniels, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, which specifically identified nanotechnology as one of six interagency R&D priorities for FY 2004.

Federal funding for nanotechnology is focused through the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI). The NNI is an interagency program that encompasses relevant nanotechnology R&D among the participating Federal agencies. The research agenda for the nine agencies currently participating in the NNI is coordinated by the Nanoscale Science and Engineering Technology (NSET) Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC). The NSET is staffed by representatives of the participating agencies, OSTP, OMB, as well as other Federal agencies that lack relevant R&D programs but which have an interest in these technologies. NSET members meet on a monthly basis to measure progress, set priorities, organize workshops, and plan for the coming year. The National Nanotechnology Coordination Office (NNCO) assists NSETparticipating agencies in coordinating their nanotechnology funding. It also serves as the secretariat for the NNI. The NNCO carries out the objectives established by the NSET members, coordinates and publishes information from workshops sponsored by the NNI, and prepares annual reports on the activities of the NNI. The NNCO also contracts for program reviews to provide feedback on the NNI. The federal agencies currently performing nanotechnology research coordinated through the NNI are:

- Department of Defense;

- Department of Energy;

- Department of Justice;

- Department of Transportation;

- Environmental Protection Agency;

- National Aeronautics and Space Administration;

- National Institutes of Health;

- National Institute of Standards and Technology; and

- National Science Foundation.

This funding provides support for a range of activities, which include: basic research, focused efforts directed at answering specific sets of questions of high significance - socalled "grand challenges," research infrastructure (instrumentation, equipment, facilities), and centers and networks of excellence, which are larger centralized facilities intended to provide sites for cooperative and collaborative efforts among distributed networks and groups of researchers at multiple affiliated institutions. Depending on the agency, funding is being used to support mission-oriented research within agencies, research at national laboratories, or to support research at academic institutions. A small portion of the funding is also dedicated to addressing non-technical research problems in a broader context, including societal implications, and workforce and training issues that will likely emerge in relation to nanotechnology.

The National Research Council (NRC) conducted an evaluation study of the NNI from mid-2001 to mid-2002. Earlier this summer, the NRC released the results of this study in a report entitled Small Wonders, Endless Frontiers: A Review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative. The report highlighted the strong leadership of the NNI, praised the degree of interagency collaboration, and lauded the early successes of the research programs. The report also provided a number of recommendations to further strengthen the NNI. OSTP is working closely with the NNCO, as well as through its representation on the NSTC's Nanoscale Science and Engineering Technology Subcommittee, to improve the structure of the NNI, and to create a stronger framework for implementing the NNI's technical objectives. One recommendation of the NRC was to create an independent Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Advisory Board (NNAB) to provide input to the NSET members. OSTP believes that this function can be met through the President's Council of Advisors and Science and Technology (PCAST). As you know, PCAST members represent a distinguished cross section of industry and academia and have always functioned as an external advisory board on science and technology issues of relevance to the nation. They are clearly qualified to carry out such functions for nanotechnology.

The NNI was initiated in FY 2001. The early program successes and positive independent review by the NRC provide a sound justification for continued support in this important research field. With a history of only two years, the ultimate impact of the NNI lies in the future and will only be realized through continued federal R&D funding.

Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee, I hope that this overview has conveyed this Administration's commitment to nanotechnology and the NNI program. OSTP is actively working with the NNCO to implement many of the NRC recommendations. We believe that our efforts will improve the program substantially and will enhance our investment in nanotechnology.


*******************

Article 439

Mr. Chairman, Senator Allen, members of the subcommittee, I thank you for allowing me -- -- -on behalf of the NanoBusiness Alliance and our member organizations -- the opportunity to testify before you on the topic on nanotechnology, and its transition from a science into a business. Today, nanotechnology is rapidly becoming the Industrial Revolution of 21st century. The importance of nanotechnology cannot be overstated. It will affect almost every aspect of our lives- our food, clothing, medicines, computing and energy needs. More importantly, for every area where we can fathom an impact from nanotechnology, there will be others no one has thought of -- new capabilities, new products, and new markets.

Today's nanotech industry might be compared to the computer industry of the 1960s, before the integrated circuit, or the biotech industry of the 1970s. But while many nanotechnology sectors are in their nascent stages, others are already delivering products to the market. A variety of nanomaterials, for instance, including enhanced polymers, coatings, and fillers, are already available, producing revenues, and profits. And advanced nanotech medical and electronics applications will be imminently impacting lives. 

As production of nano-products becomes easier, faster and cheaper, every market sector will begin to feel their impact. We at the NanoBusiness Alliance estimate that the global market for nanotechnology-related products and services could reach more than $225 billion in 2005. The NSF conservatively predicts a $1 trillion global market for nanotechnology in little over a decade.

The National Nanotechnology Initiative:

Since its inception the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) has proven to be an incredible instance of government outpacing the imagination of the private sector. Mike Roco, Jim Murday and the other individuals who created and continue to advance the NNI should be commended. That is why the NanoBusiness Alliance and its members would like to enthusiastically endorse the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act that is being introduced by this Senator Wyden. By all accounts it will be a vital and timely bill that builds on the fine work of the NNI and will assist America's long term scientific and economic competitiveness in this field.

State of NanoBusiness

Nanotechnology is becoming nanobusiness faster than anyone imagined.

Corporations

Just five years ago only a few corporate visionaries - IBM, HP, TI among them - were undertaking any research and development in the nanosciences. Today you'd be hard pressed to find a member of the Fortune 500 that does manufacturing without some nanotechnology effort -GM, GE, Siemens, Intel, Hitachi, Dow, etc have launched significant nanotech initiatives. Start-Ups Unlike the Dot-com era, nanotech start ups are built on science. They have real technology. Real assets. And more often than not, they are founded by researchers from universities, government and corporate laboratories. More than half the world nanotech start ups are in the US. And while it is difficult to pin an exact number on how many there are, it is safe to say that at least a 1,000 are currently in operation up from approximately 100 three years ago.

Funding:

Venture capitalists, institutional investors and wealthy angels have also begun to see the potential in nanotech, and, though chastened by the lessons of the "dot-com disaster, "are nevertheless aggressively seeking investment opportunities. Over 60 US venture capital firms, in addition to numerous corporate venturing operations, have invested in nanotech-related companies. Investment in nanotechnology start-ups will rise from $100 million in 1999 to a projected $1 billion by 2003.

Regional Development:

Ultimately, regional development efforts --the creation of technology clusters (Nanotech Valleys if you will) -- will fuel the explosive growth of the nanotechnology industry Localized development efforts are already underway from Virginia to Texas to California. The Alliance launched a "Nanotech Hubs Initiative"a few months to jump start regional technology cluster development. We have been overwhelmed. Though we have launched efforts in six regions--as well as affiliates in the EU and Canada - we have been inundated with calls from 35 states and 11 countries to help develop this capacity. These states and regions are already looking to nanotechnology to ignite economic development.

Foreign Competition

Nanotechnology is emerging as a truly global technology. Unlike the many waves of technological development, nanotechnology is not dominated by the United States. In several areas of nanotechnology the US is being outpaced by foreign competition. The Japan, EU, Russia, Korea, and China are all significant players in the field of nanotechnology A recent report from the Journal of Japanese Trade & Industry notes that the Japanese government views the successful development of nanotechnology as the key to "restoration of the Japanese economy."They are not alone. Funding has grown at unprecedented rates across the globe over the last three years.

Problems in the NanoBusiness World

Not everything is rosy for the future of nanobusiness. While the NNI and overall government nanotech efforts have been a great source of coordination and basic research funding for many, these nanotech grants remain among the most competitive in the government.

In addition, many nanotech companies have emerged from the basic research cycle and are addressing issues such as scaling and integration. Few government programs address this timeframe. Add to that a venture capital sector that is unwilling to and you have companies falling into what investors term "Death Valley."Another area of concern for nanotech start ups is the current state of US intellectual property. The Patent Office is in desperate need of training programs to ensure its examiners understand nanotechnology and its multi-disciplinary nature.

Another grave fear is the uneasiness over the lack of research on nanotech health and safety issues. More than one CEO has asked "are we sitting on the next asbestos working with all these tiny things."In addition, the current state of technology transfer is lacking by any measure. The technology transfer process from government and academic labs to the marketplace is impossible at worst - arduous at best. And lastly, education, as well workforce training and development are beginning to become issues among the nanotech community.

Close

In closing, nanotechnology the science is indeed now rapidly becoming nanotechnology the business. As a nation we have been very fortunate to have the visionary support --from both sides of the aisle -- in developing and maintaining the NNI. However, we are now at a cross roads where we must expand its reach from the laboratory to the board room. While maintaining the development of basic research as a priority, we must expand our sights to cultivate the nanotechnology industry and usher in a new Industrial Revolution. Again, that is why the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act is so important.

We see the Act's ability to strengthen the structure of the NNI as being of vital importance - 1. - increasing the long term stability and growth of our Nation's nanotechnology efforts.

The Act makes the development of the nanotechnology sector a major government focus. 2. We especially support Act's call for the development of a government advisory board.

To ensure America's long term leadership in nanoscience and nanobusiness, we also 3. strongly support the Act's call for further examination and tracking of international funding, development and competition.

And, we back the Act's efforts to encourage nanoscience through additional grants, and the 4. establishment of interdisciplinary nanotechnology research centers, as this will lead to more innovation and further development of the nanotech economy.

Long term, the Alliance would like to see Congress continue its focus on nanotechnology developing programs - and expanding existing programs - for commercializing nanotechnology development.

Create programs that offer opportunities to entrepreneurial start- ups and innovative corporations alike. Programs that offer contract opportunities, incentives, loans, and funding to take nanotechnology innovations into the marketplace. Ensure that the USPTO is properly educated and equipped to evaluate and approve nanotechnology patents

Organize an extensive global effort with industry, academia and government to study the health and environmental effects Develop programs that promote and nurture regional nanotechnology cluster development.

Develop programs to improve the state of tech transfer at government labs and academic institutions which will improve the commoditization of emerging technologies

Again, I would like to thank the Chairman, Senator Allen and the Committee for this opportunity to address them.


*******************

Article 440

Good afternoon. My name is Nathan Swami, and I am Executive Director of the Initiative for Nanotechnology in Virginia, or INanoVA for short. We are a coalition of state government, leading research universities, and a growing family of nanobusinesses that are emerging throughout the Commonwealth of VA. A list of our members and stakeholders is appended to the written version of my testimony. INanoVA's overall goal is to position Virginia among the national leaders in nanotechnology research and business development, as we are keenly aware that leadership in this exciting field is the key to Virginia's economic future. In our short history, we have found a rising tide of interest in nanotechnology, and it is with great enthusiasm that we urge passage of the "21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act." 

In my remarks this morning (afternoon), I wish to sketch out some general arguments in favor of this bill, touch briefly on Virginia's perspective, and conclude with two recommendations that we believe will strengthen the impact of this important legislation.

First, we must recognize that our entire economy has become heavily dependent on technological innovation. Some economists estimate that nearly half of the American economy is now driven by new discoveries in technology-heavy sectors ranging from agriculture and medicine to man- made materials, electronics, information technology, and telecommunications. We now know that further developments in these and other industries will be driven in large part by the broad general movement known as nanotechnology. So it is inevitable that we view nanotechnology, which in its simplest definition is the natural outgrowth of our ability to work with greater and greater precision in ever smaller dimensions, as the foundation upon which we will enter a new age of innovation. This new age, the Age of Nanotechnology, is one where we will imitate nature itself, thus endowing us with the capability to make materials, devices, machines and medicines with an efficiency and effectiveness that is undreamt of today. We are on the cusp of that new age now, and government support can assure that we will get there first.

Some may ask, "But why do we need this bill? If nanotechnology is so promising, why can't private enterprise foot the bill?" The answer quite simply is this: We owe our world leadership in high technology to the government's timely investments at critical early stages, time and again, when emerging technologies were most in need of a boost in order to move toward eventual commercial success. From the dawn of modern agriculture to aerospace to the launching of the Information Age, government support has been a powerful catalyst to drive basic research and accelerate technology transfer from the laboratory to the marketplace.

In industry after industry, one sees the same pattern: federal dollars encourage early discoveries in a new technology, which then attracts private investment, which then grows into a successful industry, with large employers and many jobs for working Americans. Trace the history of agribusiness and the green revolution and you find federal dollars funneled through Agricultural Extension services in our land grant universities, an ongoing investment that has revolutionized American farming. Silicon Valley and Boston's Route 128 high tech corridor would not exist if the federal government had not invested in early stage research in computer science. The Internet itself is an outgrowth of federally supported research. We are now at another critical juncture in our technological evolution, and timely passage of this bill will go far to assure continuing American leadership in the global economy.

To those who ask, "Why pass this bill?," we can respond with another question: "What will happen if we don't?" The answer is discomforting, as we see other governments of the European Union and East Asian nations investing heavily in major nanotechnology research and development centers. The hard reality is that the worldwide race for preeminence in nanotechnology is on, and America must push to stay in the lead.

From Virginia's perspective, we see great promise for nanotechnology to boost business development in industries that are crucial to our overall economy: information technology, biotechnology, advanced materials, health-care, aerospace, shipbuilding, and telecommunications, to name just a few. We have an impressive infrastructure in this state, with leading research universities, a lively venture capital community, and a business- friendly state government. Indeed, INanoVA owes its very existence to timely funding from Virginia's Center for Innovative Technology, an economic development agency focused on innovative technologies with an impressive track record in facilitating the start up and growth of leading edge businesses. For all our strengths, however, we are not yet at the point of critical mass, and we have not created the synergies necessary to form leading nanotechnology R&D centers, such as those currently under development in several other states. This bill, we believe, will be a catalyzing force to encourage nanotechnology research and education in Virginia, to foster the development of major public/private partnerships, and to actively engage larger segments of our academic and business communities in the nanotechnology movement.

Regarding the bill itself, we have two recommendations that we believe will enhance its effectiveness.

First, we judge that the pace of nanotechnology research will be accelerated considerably if the bill were to encourage the development of regional centers for excellence in research instrumentation, encompassing both multi-disciplinary facilities and state-of-the-art infrastructure. All scientific disciplines are engaged in nanoscale research, and much of this work requires sophisticated and expensive equipment. If this bill were to encourage the formation of regional networks of such research equipment, then access would be enhanced. We would anticipate more efficient utilization of the equipment, a much broader participation of researchers from colleges and universities of all sizes, and a faster spread of scientific, technological, and educational benefits.

Second, we believe the bill should specifically require coordination between the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office and existing state nanotechnology initiatives, as well as university research offices. This decentralized approach is particularly necessary for nanoscale sciences where much of the fundamental innovations occur in a "bottom-up" fashion. One method to accomplish this is for the national office to directly fund state nanotechnology initiatives and charge them with identifying and encouraging specific lines of research and business development based on identified strengths in their particular regions.

In conclusion, the Initiative for Nanotechnology in Virginia strongly supports the proposed bill and envisions it as a much- needed catalyst to help the nation and regional centers realize their ultimate potential for scientific, technological, business and educational innovations, through the enabling science of nanotechnology. Finally I would like to thank the Committee for inviting me to speak, and I gladly offer the services of our organization (INanoVA) to help in the swift passage of this bill. Thank you. .


*******************

Article 441

COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION

The Committee recommends the budget request of $5,368,000 for the Office of Science and Technology Policy. This represents an increase of $101,000 or 1.9 percent over the fiscal year 2002 level.

The Committee supports the administration's interagency initiatives in nanoscience and engineering and information technology research. These are cutting-edge interagency programs that are important for the long term health of the Nation. In the area of nanotechnology, the National Academy of Sciences has made a number of recommendations that would strengthen the interagency National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI). The Committee urges OSTP to give serious consideration to the Academy's recommendations. The Committee is particularly supportive of the recommendation for an independent advisory council, modeled after the one used for the information technology initiative. The Committee views such outside advice as vital to help focus the interagency program on critically important challenges. The Committee also supports the recommendation calling for increased interagency investments in areas related to nanotechnology and the life sciences. It is already apparent that applications of nanotechnology can have significant impacts in disease diagnosis and treatment. Accordingly, the Committee calls on OSTP to ensure the active participation of the National Institutes of Health in this interagency research initiative.

The Committee is concerned with recent changes made in the administration's interagency global change research program. It is vital this interagency program be based on a broad, well-balanced research agenda, focused on both short-term and long-term needs and questions, and implemented using an open peer review process to ensure scientific excellence. The Committee believes that the Science Advisor must play the lead role in the Federal Government's global environmental research program to ensure scientific excellence is maintained. OSTP is requested to provide the Committee with a progress report on this matter by February 3, 2003.


*******************

Article 442

If the answer has to be nuclear, it would best to be far, far away from the reactor. Nature has already given us one such reactor, and provided the necessary distance and shielding. It is our sun. There is plenty of energy from this reactor to provide all our energy needs for any foreseeable future. We just don't know how to harvest it, store it, transport it, and use it in the amounts we need.

I believe that we can find the answers to how to do this. I believe they will be found, somehow, somewhere, in nanotechnology.

DOE is the only agency of the US government that can respond to this challenge. Energy is, after all, DOE's principal mission.

Within DOE, the Office of Science, particularly its Basic Energy Sciences Program (BES), is the only organization that can have a major impact early on. The technology that will do what we need does not yet exist. It will come from discoveries in basic science, and particularly from nanotechnology. The biggest breakthrough will come in some perhaps small lab, in some surprising way, perhaps made by a young black woman who is currently not even out of grade school. It will come from the garden of science, cultivated by DOE's Office of Science.

Currently the Office of Science plays a unique and critical role in the multi-agency National Nanotechnology Initiative. In addition to funding substantial individual investigator research in the university community, the Office of Science is also establishing Nanoscale Science Research Centers (NSRCs), as recommended by the NSTC Interagency Working Group on Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and Technology (IWGN). These Nanotech- centers are user centers just like the synchrotron light sources and neutron scattering facilities operated by the Office of Science. The Nanotech centers will provide unique scientific and engineering capabilities not available in any of the parallel programs sponsored by other government agencies. For example, the National Science Foundation sponsors research programs in nanoscience at universities, but such programs will be limited in scope and size and will not be comparable to the large-scale facilities in Europe or Japan.

Incidentally, Japan's budget for nanotechnology this year is $650 million, exceeding the US expenditure of $604 million. The Japanese government plans to ramp up funding of nanotechnology research to a level of $2 billion per year by 2005. Korea and China are also investing heavily, as is western Europe. Funding for nanotechnology research in the US is currently less than 1/3rd of the funding worldwide. This is not a good sign.

The current budget request for the Office of Science contains a modest and reasonable increase to sustain its critical mission this next year. I support it, and realize than in the current financial times it is probably the most that one can hope for. But I believe it is far too little, and far disproportionate to the magnitude of the problem. We need to find that new energy technology, and do it quickly.

*******************

Article 443

Finally, I can point out with great pride that the Office of Science funded the work of both the distinguished scientists on the panel with me today.

Between 1978 and 1994 the Division of Chemical Sciences supported Dr. Smalley in his experiments on carbon clusters that eventually led to his discovery of a new form of carbon, called buckminsterfullerene, or "buckyballs," which contains 60 carbon atoms in the shape of a soccer ball. For this Dr. Smalley won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1996. Discovery of the structure and properties of fullerenes, first determined at SC synchrotron national light sources and neutron scattering facilities, are spurring a revolution in carbon chemistry and may lead to a profusion of new materials, polymers, catalyst and drug delivery systems. Today SC is supporting research, building on Dr. Smalley's discoveries, into construction of nanotechnologies such as microscopic carbon tubes with lengthwise holes only a billionth of a meter in diameter that may have greater tensile strength than steel and conduct electricity as well as metal.

The Office of Science is proud, also, to have supported Dr. Friedman and his colleagues in the breakthrough discoveries on the structure of matter that won them the 1990 Nobel Prize in Physics. Dr. Friedman's investigations, conducted at SC's Stanford Linear Accelerator Center in California, found clear signs that there exists an inner structure in the protons and neutrons of the atomic nucleus. In what has become known as the "SLAC-MIT experiment" Dr. Friedman and others illuminated protons and neutrons with beams from a giant "electron microscope" -the two-mile-long accelerator at SLAC-to postulate quarks as the fundamental building blocks of protons and neutrons.


*******************

Article 444

Total, STRS 336,443,000

Within the amounts provided, the Committee approves the following increases: (1) $4,000,000 in the Building and Fire Research Program for the development of standards pertaining to construction of high-rise buildings; (2) $4,000,000 in the Physics program to provide measurements, standards, and test methods for the development of advanced nanotechnologies; (3) $4,000,000 in the Computer Science and Applied Mathematics program to develop new measurements, test methods, and guidelines for the protection of the Nation's critical infrastructures; (4) $3,400,000 in the Chemical Science and Technology Program to change measurement and standards activities related to the reduction and monitoring of global climate change, including $1,000,000 to restore reductions in enviremental measurements at the Hollings Marine Laboratory; (5) $4,000,000 in the Computer Science and Applied Mathematics Program for quantum computing. The Committee recommendation includes $48,581,000 for Research Support Activities, of which only $12,100,000 may be used to fund business systems. The Committee recommends that no funds be used for FAIR Act studies. The Committee does not recommend funding for the Critical Infrastructure Protection Grants Program. The Advanced Technology Program was developed to evaluate these types of grant applications, and (6) $2,500,000 under the Wind Research Program to continue funding an existing cooperative agreement between NIST and Texas Tech University.

Industrial Technology Services

Appropriations, 2002 $291,032,000

Budget estimate, 2003 119,607,000


*******************

Article 445

The Committee recommendation includes $1,044,600,000. For purposes of reprogramming in fiscal year 2002, the Department may allocate funding among all operating accounts within basic energy sciences upon written notice to the appropriate Congressional Committees.

The Committee recommendation includes $12,000,000 for the Department's Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research and $4,500,000 in additional funding to complete preliminary engineering and design (PED) and move to construction at the Center for Integrated Nanotechnology. Within available funds the Committee recommendation includes full funding for the operation of the National Synchrotron Light Source, the Spallation Neutron Source, and the Nanoscale Science Centers Initiative, including $24,000,000 for design and construction of the Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences and Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Construction projects are all funded at the level of the administration's request.

The Committee is pleased with the progress of the Department's Nanoscience Initiative. The Committee understands the Department has recently announced its intention to fund a Nanocenter at Brookhaven National Laboratory. The Committee has included $1,000,000 to begin preliminary engineering and design in fiscal year 2003 for the Nanocenter at Brookhaven (Project 02-SC-2). The Committee strongly supports the nanoscale science research centers.


*******************

Article 446

G6+14,000

Kodiak Launch Infrastructure, Transportation and Security Upgrades

G6+10,000

SMDC Institute for Chemical Assembly of Nanoscale and Molecular Electronics

G6+3,000

Targeted Defense for Asymmetric Biological Attack (TDABA)

G6+1,000

Army Missile Defense Systems Integration (Dem/Val)

7,417

68,417

G6+61,000


*******************

Article 447

It is a great honor and privilege to come before you as President Bush's nominee for Associate Director for the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). If confirmed, I will serve as OSTP's Associate Director for Technology and will work along side my fellow nominee and colleague, Dr. Kathie Olsen, who will be responsible for OSTP's science division.

As part of the Executive Office of the President (EOP), OSTP plays a critical role in advising the White House on the development and use of technology in the United States. If I am confirmed, I look forward to working with this Committee and Congress on issues ranging from nanotechnology to computer security.

Under the leadership of OSTP Director John Marburger, the office has been realigned to eliminate stovepipes and to allow for the seamless sharing of insights and information among all of OSTP's staff. 


*******************

Article 448

NASA Demographics and Trends

- Current Skills Imbalances, Gaps, and Lack of Depth Within the NASA Workforce

The trends I have just outlined are not unique to NASA; we share them with other employers in the labor market today. Unfortunately, the difficulties they present to NASA's ability to manage our human capital are only exacerbated by several Agency- specific threats, warning us that we need to pay attention to these indicators before they result in a crisis. The challenge of acquiring and retaining the right workforce is not a problem of the future--it exists now. The Agency currently has skill gaps in areas such as nanotechnology, systems engineering, propulsion systems, advanced engineering technology, and information technology. In emerging technology areas, NASA projects the need to employ more civil servants in "hard to fill" areas such as astrobiology, robotics, and fundamental space biology. In other professional areas such as financial management, acquisition, and project management, a lack of depth is becoming detrimental to our ability to manage our resources and programs.

NASA's has undergone significant downsizing over the past decade, reducing its workforce from approximately 25,000 civil servants in FY 1993 to slightly more than 18,000 by FY 2002. NASA made every effort to retain key skills, but in order to avoid involuntary separations in achieving those reductions, it was not always possible to control the nature of the attrition. Inevitably, we lost some individuals with skills we couldn't afford to lose, and now these skills need to be replaced. Through downsizing and the natural attrition process, we lost key areas of our institutional knowledge base.


*******************

Article 449

While the U.S. remains the global leader in innovation, we cannot rest on our laurels. U.S. exports of technology have increased significantly over the last decade. However, imports have grown even faster.

That is why it is critical that we not only maintain but enhance our nation's ability to innovate. OSTP plays a key role in promoting innovation. For the National Science and Technology Council, OSTP coordinates governmentwide science and technology initiatives such as the networking and information technology research and development program and the national nanotechnology initiative.

OSTP supports important presidential advisory panels, such as the president's council of advisors on science and technology and a congressionally chartered commission on the future of the United States aerospace industry.



*******************

Article 450

At the Advanced Photon Source (Figure 10), the Laboratory operates a unique structural biology facility that can provide information required to support the development of drugs, vaccines, and other pharmaceuticals for treatment of exposure. Other available facilities include capabilities for determining the health and environmental risk from the dispersion of chemical and biological agents, and expertise for evaluating the potential effect of such agents on populations and materials. Argonne is also equipped to develop appropriate protective materials and methods of decontamination. Expertise, equipment, and facilities are available to conduct laboratory and field analyses for attribution of chemical and biological attacks.

Among the relevant special-purpose facilities that are currently operational at the Laboratory are: an electron microscopy center capable of examining and characterizing nanoscale embodiments likely to be used in chemical and biological detectors; a multi- bay robotics laboratory capable of developing remote manipulators for use in hazardous situations; a mobile laboratory for chemical agent detection and confirmation of onsite decontamination subsequent to cleanup operations; and a certified level 2 dilute chemical agent facility for development of analytical methods, detector testing, development of decontamination technologies, and validation of transport models. Exhibit 2 provides a more detailed summary of Argonne's major facilities for applying science and technology to chemical and biological counter- terrorism.

Pathway to a National Biodefense Initiative

A recent study of the potential impact of attacking American cities with nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons indicated that bioterror weapons represent the most dangerous domestic threat. This study simulated nuclear, chemical, and biological attacks on three American cities. What is most striking is that a biological attack can be expected to produce many more casualties than either a nuclear or a chemical weapon.


*******************

Article 451

New developments in gaseous and metal hydride storage technologies have not allowed storage densities to approach 10% by weight. This has led to increasing consideration, particularly in Europe, of liquid hydrogen as the principal form of hydrogen storage for vehicles. Lack of progress in magnetic refrigeration has deferred consideration of distributed hydrogen liquefaction. The net effect of these factors indicates a need to conceive a complementary bridge that utilizes PEM fuel cells and that can be used to achieve the same hydrogen energy vision as the original bridge.

Nanotube technology also shows promise, but is a longer-term option in need of additional RD&D, as well as technology validation.

Utilization of hydrogen is a complicated issue. Three applications of interest are aircraft, ground transportation, and power generation. The major enabling technology for two of these options (ground transportation and power generation) is fuel cells. Current estimates are that early fuel cell production units will cost $2,500/kW. This is too expensive for widespread vehicle use by at least a factor of 10. The advantages of a fuel cell over a combustion turbine or other engine systems are the increased efficiency and reduced NOx emissions. The development of a fuel cell vehicle operating on hydrogen might evolve from an engine hydrogen system in which at some future point the engine would be replaced with a fuel cell.


*******************

Article 452

And to keep America competitive, one commitment is necessary above all: We must continue to lead the world in human talent and creativity. Our greatest advantage in the world has always been our educated, hardworking, ambitious people, and we are going to keep that edge.

Tonight I announce the American Competitiveness Initiative to encourage innovation throughout our economy and to give our nation's children a firm grounding in math and science.

(APPLAUSE)

First, I propose to double the federal commitment to the most critical basic research programs in the physical sciences over the next 10 years. This funding will support the work of America's most creative minds as they explore promising areas such as nanotechnology, supercomputing and alternative energy sources.

Second, I propose to make permanent the research and development tax credit, to encourage bolder private-sector initiatives in technology.

(APPLAUSE)

With more research in both the public and private sectors, we will improve our quality of life and ensure that America will lead the world in opportunity and innovation for decades to come.


*******************

Article 453

Programs are initiated or enlarged based on considerations of their intellectual merit, broader impacts of the research, the importance to science and engineering, balance across fields and disciplines, and synergy with research in other agencies and nations. NSF coordinates its research with our sister research agencies both informally -- by program officers being actively informed of other agencies' programs - and formally, through interagency agreements that spell out the various agency roles in research activities.

Partnerships among agencies are proliferating mainly because they offer the best hope for finding answers to some of the most challenging research problems. These partnerships are truly changing the face of science. NSF is the lead agency for two multi-agency Administration initiatives in the most promising research fields, information technology and nanotechnology.Knowledge breakthroughs in these two areas alone will fundamentally change the face of research in research areas across the board.

I am keenly aware and deeply appreciative of this committee's strong interest in improving the quality of education in this country, so I wanted to take a few minutes to discuss some of the steps NSF is taking to strengthen our math and science education.


*******************

Article 454

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

The Congress makes the following findings:

(1) Information technology is an enabling technology that contributes to other scientific disciplines. Advances in nanotechnology, bioinformatics, intelligent networks, wireless networking, robotics, artificial intelligence, and other fields depend on further advances in information technology research and development. In turn, advances in networking and information technology depend on research in a wide range of fields, such as computer science and engineering, mathematics, and many others, and in the development of electronic components such as semiconductors and fiber optics that are faster, denser, and cheaper. Research in fields such as materials sciences, physics, chemistry, and photonics lays the foundation for building these advanced components.

(2) Federal investment in information technology research and development over the past 50 years has led to technological innovations that have transformed our society and stimulated economic growth.


*******************

Article 455

The Technology Talent Act of 2002 provides incentives to institutions of higher education to implement programs, activities, and services that will have a direct impact on the number and quality of graduates in the physical and information sciences, mathematics, engineering and technology. The Committee values the contributions of the biological and social sciences, and the decision to focus this particular program on the physical sciences, mathematics, engineering, and technology in no way indicates that support for the biological or social sciences should be reduced or eliminated from any other NSF research or education activity. The Committee recognizes the success these disciplines have had in increasing the number of their graduates, and encourages other science and engineering disciplines to adopt and implement strategies that have been successful in the social and biological sciences.

For the purposes of this section, the physical sciences include such fields as chemistry, physics, astronomy, and earth and atmospheric sciences, while the information sciences include such fields as computer science and bioinformatics. Mathematics includes such fields as theoretical and applied mathematics, and engineering includes such fields as electrical engineering, chemical engineering, bioengineering, biomedical engineering, aeronautical and astronautical engineering, computer engineering, software engineering, civil engineering, mechanical engineering, and materials engineering. The Committee strongly encourages the participation of interdisciplinary programs such as ones focused on nanotechnology, that prepare students for the contemporary workplace and that teach students to assimilate and transfer ideas from one science or engineering discipline to another.

The term "technology" is intended to mean those programs offered primarily by two-year colleges that train individuals for direct employment by the high technology sector including information technology, engineering technology, computer technology, and biotechnology. The Committee assumes that students completing two-year technology degrees will be able to enter the workforce directly or transfer to a four-year school where credits earned under the technology degree could be applied toward a baccalaureate degree in a related area.


*******************

Article 456

The QDR states, and the ACS agrees, that a strong, steady investment in S&T is important to maintaining our technological edge over adversaries, and it is absolutely critical to the Department efforts to "transform" the armed services. Revolutionary capabilities arising from the integration of new scientific discoveries and emerging technologies will require the best in scientific and engineering insight and skill.

For example, the Army imagines nanotechnology science leading to uniforms that can detect threats from chemical or biological weapons, render the wearer invisible to infrared detection, and change colors as needed. Equipment based on nanoscience could reduce the weight a soldier has to carry from up to 145 pounds to only 45 pounds. While these technologies may be theoretically feasible, they will never exist without the fundamental scientific advances that can only come from a great deal of hard work, a few brilliant experiments, and a sustained, robust investment in S&T.

The long-term pay-offs of investment in S&T are usually the most apparent, but research programs can also produce very rapid returns. For example, following the September 1 lth tragedies, DOD established a Counter Terrorism Technology task force to identify budding technologies that could be transitioned from the S&T program into the field in thirty days. The results of this effort included the thermobaric bomb, recently deployed in Afghanistan. According to Dr. Ron Sega, Director of Defense Research and Engineering, the project went from "chemistry-to- weapon" in just three months. Although concentrated effort and extra funding were essential for rapid deployment in this case, the wealth of options available to DOD was the result of consistent, long-term investment in S&T. This new technology now joins the long line of successful innovations nurtured by DOD S&T programs-including night vision and global positioning satellites, which have become central to military capabilities.


*******************

Article 457

(a) Fiscal Year 2003.

(1) In general. There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Science Foundation $5,515,260,000 for fiscal year 2003.

(2) Specific allocations. Of the amount authorized under paragraph (1)

(A) $4,138,440,000 shall be made available to carry out Research and Related Activities, of which

(i) $704,000,000 shall be for networking and information technology research;

(ii) $238,450,000 shall be for the Nanoscale Science and Engineering Priority Area;

(iii) $60,090,000 shall be for the Mathematical Sciences Priority Area; and

(iv) $75,900,000 shall be for Major Research Instrumentation;


*******************

Article 458

Virginia Commonwealth University is a public university that includes one of the nation's oldest schools of medicine and the nation's newest accredited school of engineering. In federal obligations for science and engineering R&D, we rank 88th and second in Virginia. This year we will receive approximately $160M in competitive externally funded awards for our research and training, of which 64% will be from the federal government, and 12% each from state, foundation and industry sources. So, like our peer institutions, it is our relationship with the federal government that makes us a research university. These funds will support almost 1000 research projects. While we are one of the largest academic health systems in the United States, and the largest part of our federal funding is from the NIH, the impact of what we are able to do would be severely limited without the integration with advanced capabilities in our other disciplines. For example, the work we do in tissue regeneration in our school of medicine depends on the work done in our school of engineering in advanced polymers that has led to nanoscale, biocompatible tissue support scaffolds. Work funded in one field by the NIH has now merged with work funded in another by the Department of Defense and the NSF to become more valuable. VCU is the largest employer in Richmond and one third of all Virginia indigent care is provided in our hospital. But the ideas and inventions of research add substantially to its economic impact. In the example given here, the research has led to a promising Richmond-based start-up company. Last year VCU was involved in the start-up of seven companies. As a result of our research, VCU together with its Biotech Research Park has had an extraordinary role in the renewal of inner city Richmond. VCU is typical of public research institutions in that there are few means of supporting creative research other than the efforts of faculty who write proposals to funding agencies and are successfully awarded grants or contracts to fund their work. The research enterprise in such a university must essentially stand on its own financial base. Approximately one dollar out of every five coming into the university is in the form of a grant or contract. These external research funds are woven through most of what we do. This funding establishes the caliber of the education we offer. 

*******************

Article 459

Senate Commerce Science and Transportation Committee Subcommittee on Science Technology and Space

May 22, 2002

We Must Expand Our Investment in Science 1. The Hart-Rudman Commission on National Security to 2025 warned that our failure to invest in science and to reform math and science education was the second biggest threat to our national security. It warned that only the threat of a weapon of mass destruction in an American city was a greater danger. In fact, the Commission unanimously concluded that the danger from under investing in math and science and failing to reform math and science education was greater than the danger from any conceivable conventional war. 2. The explosion of knowledge in nanoscale science and technology and in the quantum behaviors associated with that scale (from smaller than one atom to about four hundred atoms) represents a profound transformation in our understanding of the natural world. Every member of Congress should take time to learn the basics of nanoscale activities and the potential of quantum behaviors. 3. These changes will be so profound they will effect biology, chemistry, physics and the basic building blocks of every aspect of life and civilization. Our approach to health, the environment, productivity and national security will all be profoundly shaped by this emerging revolution in knowledge. 4. The knowledge breakthroughs of the next 20 years will equal the entire 20th century. In other words the rate of change is accelerating and in the next two decades will be about 5 times as fast as the 20th century. The rate will continue to accelerate and we will match the 20th century again between 2020 and 2035. 5. Countries which fail to invest in basic science and math and which fail to insist on adequate math and science education will fall behind economically and in national security capabilities. 6. The United States lead today is a function of past investments. Our ability to lead in 2020 is a function of current decisions. There is no reason today to believe we will automatically maintain that lead. 7. We graduate too many lawyers and too few scientists and engineers. We produce too few high school students capable of doing college math and science and too few college graduates capable of doing graduate work in science and math. 8. If the present trends continue we will be surpassed by China and India in the next generation and we might be passed by Japan and Europe. 9. To meet this challenge the National Science Foundation should be increased to a $15 billion a year budget. It is clear that the National Science Foundation could invest $11 billion a year within current constraints (see prior testimony by the Director, Dr. Colwell). It is clear that instrumentation, education, and research projects could absorb a $15 billion level productively. 10. The National Nanotechnology Initiative should immediately be expanded to $1,100,000 in the coming year and should grow at 15 to 20% a year after that. 11. The National Institutes of Health should be instructed to invest at least three per cent of their research efforts into nanoscale activities. 12. The math and science educational efforts at k-12 and in undergraduate collegiate education have to be thoroughly overhauled with a focus on results rather than intentions. Reforming education in this area is a matter of national security priority and if we fail at it we should expect to decline as a power and to fall behind other countries in a generation. 13. The Congress should contract with the National Academy of Sciences for paid analysis and advice instead of attempting to recreate the Office of Technology Assessment. Every member of Congress should spend some time each year becoming scientifically informed.


*******************

Article 460

Mr. Chairman, Senator Allen, members of the Subcommittee, thank you for this opportunity to testify before you today on the FY 2003 budget request for research and development (R&D). I represent the largest general scientific society in the world with over 130,000 members and 275 affiliated societies. Our members come from the entire range of science and technology disciplines. From that unique perspective, I can tell you that our nation's science and technology enterprise continues its great productivity, and has had a tremendously successful year with an array of exciting advances that will yield benefits throughout society. Moreover, many of this past year's most important findings illustrate and emphasize that in the current age, major advances in any one specialty field are dependent on an integrated, interwoven set of processes that requires simultaneous progress throughout the broad science and technology enterprise. A few examples include: - Science magazine's breakthrough of the year: nanotechnology. Scientists and engineers have created the first set of molecular-scale circuits that, when they are wired to computer chip architectures, will provide incredible computing power in tiny machines. This set of breakthroughs depends heavily on fundamental discoveries in condensed matter physics, chemistry, and materials science. - Geologists and chemists have made tremendous progress in revealing the mechanisms of the breakdown of organic matter that can determine soil fertility and the dispersal of soil contaminants. - Using animal models, scientists at an NSF-built science and technology center have worked out many of the molecular and neural mechanisms of the body's biological clock, including critical gene elements. Building on this work, clinical investigators have now shown direct application of these findings in human subjects who have many similar genes. - Combining molecular biology and materials science, researchers have, basically, produced spider silk fibers from mammalian cells. - Advanced optics developed for astronomical telescopes are now being used to help map the eye retina and may lead to improved optical surgery and corrective lenses. Since I came to AAAS recently from the National Institute on Drug Abuse at NIH, I also want to emphasize that progress in all of the biomedical sciences is heavily dependent on the health of the entire array of scientific fields. You know, of course, about the application of fiber optics in medical scoping, and the use of lasers, developed by physicists and chemists, in surgery. In my own area of highest expertise - the brain mechanisms of addiction - advances in physics and their applications in imaging technology are directly responsible for our finally being able to look into the brains of living, awake humans during and following drug experiences, and those studies have revolutionized our understanding of this great social and health problem. Over twenty federal agencies contribute to federal R&D, many of them under your subcommittee's jurisdiction. Each agency, according to its mission, plays a very important role in contributing to our nation's R&D productivity, and it is important that all agency science programs receive strong support. It is also important to note, however, that NSF has a specific mission to pursue basic research across the full- range of science and technology disciplines and therefore plays a very special and unique role.


*******************

Article 461

NSF coordinates its research with our sister research agencies both informally -- by program officers being actively informed of other agencies' programs -- and formally, through interagency agreements that spell out the various agency roles in research activities. Moreover, through our Committee of Visitors process there is continuous evaluation and feedback of information about how NSF programs are performing. One of the highlights of the budget is a second installment of $200 million for the national five-year, $1 billion Math and Science Partnership Program. The program links local schools with colleges and universities to improve pre-K -12 math and science education, train teachers, and create innovative ways to raise the performance of all students and schools. An investment of approximately $37 million will increase annual stipends for graduate fellows to $25,000 to attract more of the nation's most promising students to science and engineering. The budget also includes funding for six priority areas, including $221 million for nanotechnology research, $286 million for information technology research, and $60 million as part of a new priority area in mathematical and statistical sciences research that will ultimately advance interdisciplinary science and engineering. $185 million is directed toward NSF's Learning for the 21st Century Workforce priority area -- including $20 million to fund three to four new multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional Science of Learning Centers to enhance our understanding of how we learn, how the brain stores information, and how we can best use new information technology to promote learning. We are also requesting $10 million to seed a new priority area in the social, behavioral, and economic sciences to explore the complex interactions between new technology and society so that we can better anticipate and prepare for their consequences. The budget requests $79 million for research on biocomplexity in the environment. This builds upon past investments to study the remarkable and dynamic web of interrelationships that arise when living things at all levels interact with their environment. Research in two new areas this year -- microbial genome sequencing and ecology of 3 infectious diseases -- will help develop strategies to assess and manage the risks of infectious diseases, invasive species, and biological weapons. I should add that as part of the Administration's new multi- agency Climate Change Research Initiative, we will implement a $15 million research program to advance understanding in highly focused areas of climate science, to reduce uncertainty and facilitate policy decisions. Our budget also includes $76 million for programs slated to be transferred to NSF from NOAA, EPA, and the USGS. Although we did not seek these transfers, we take considerable pride in the fact that of the 26 Federal agencies judged by OMB in five key management areas, only the National Science Foundation received a green light.

*******************

Article 462

Mr. Chairman, this is a good budget for science, and I look forward to working with Congress to see it successfully enacted. These science and technology investments will enable the Nation to: - Enhance homeland security, national security, and global stability; - Promote long- term economic growth that creates high-wage jobs; - Support a healthy, educated citizenry; - Harness information technology; - Improve environmental quality; and - Maintain world leadership in science, engineering, and mathematics. Now let me direct your attention to some specifics within this budget. Interagency Initiatives The budget increases funding for a number of priority research areas that require multiagency efforts. Information technology, nanotechnology, and health research continue to be high priorities for our Nation. The past year also has seen an increase in priority for climate change R&D. After the events of September 11th, antiterrorism efforts naturally lead the list. - Antiterrorism - our success in preventing, detecting, and responding to terrorist activities over the long term will depend on technology. The President's FY 2003 Budget continues the Administration's strong support of research and development to counter emerging terrorist threats by increasing R&D funding for homeland security and combating terrorism (including protecting critical infrastructure) from nearly $1 billion in 2002 to an estimated $3 billion in 2003. - The National Nanotechnology Initiative will increase by 17 percent over last year. This $679 million multi-agency initiative focuses on long-term research on the manipulation of matter at the atomic and molecular levels, giving us unprecedented opportunities for new classes of devices as small as molecules and machines as small as human cells. - Networking and Information Technology R&D will increase by 3 percent. This brings the overall investment to $1.9 billion in this mature, but still critically important area. It provides the base technologies necessary for the U.S. to maintain its dominant position in the application of information technology to critical national defense and national security needs, as well as to scientific research, education, and economic innovation. - Improving human health depends on health research that draws on the capabilities of many agencies. During the Presidential campaign, the President promised to double the budget of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by 2003 from its 1998 levels. That commitment is met in this budget, which includes the final installment, a $3.9 billion increase, paving the way toward better diagnostics, treatments, and cures that affect the lives of all Americans. - Climate Change research has become an important driver for the Nation's research agenda. The President created two new initiatives in this budget. The Climate Change Research Initiative will share $40 million among five agencies, and the National Climate Change Technology Initiative will receive $40 million within the DOE budget. The ongoing U.S. Global Change Research Program will receive $1.7 billion, a $44 million (3 percent) increase.


*******************

Article 463

Advanced computing and networking are infrastructure, especially in the rural and EPSCoR states. They are our lifeline to the larger research community, to research competitiveness and to recognized research expertise for our institutions. For that reason, I believe that advanced computing and networking are areas where there must be special efforts to insure that all states participate fully in federal programs.

Facilities continue to be a major challenge for institutions such as Montana State. We do not have the resources and endowments that many institutions have. The opportunity for raising large sums from private sources is limited. Yet, increasingly, our researchers need state-of-the-art laboratories and facilities if we are to pursue the latest research opportunities. And if we are to make the most of major increases in NIH and NSF funding, additional facilities are vital. At this very moment, MSU has access to major equipment valued at $850,000, which would be a major asset for our nanotechnology group, but we cannot take possession because we do not have a proper facility for it.

A strong instrumentation program at NSF is also essential. Ultimately, research success depends upon researchers. And, it is difficult to attract and retain good researchers if you cannot provide them with the tools necessary to undertake their research. Start-up costs for new hires in the sciences continue to rise. We are fortunate that new technologies and new equipment allow us to dramatically expand our horizons, but that comes at a cost and if a university cannot meet those costs, then its research activities will falter.


*******************

Article 464

Examples include the Next Generation Internet initiative, a project designed to invest in R&D for new networking technologies at speeds that are 1,000 times faster than the then existing Internet; the Information Technology for the Twenty-First Century (IT2) Initiative, a multi-agency initiative focused on fundamental research in software, development of information systems that ensure privacy and security of data; the National Nanotechnology Initiative to accelerate development and deployment of nanotechnology in areas such as materials and manufacturing, nanoelectronics, medicine and healthcare, environment, energy, chemicals, biotechnology, agriculture, information technology, and national security; a National Plant Genome Initiative (NPGI) that supports the sequencing of the genomes of model organisms, including Arabidopsis thaliana and an international effort to fully sequence the rice genome; and of course the Human Genome Project. Fourth, the Clinton Administration understood that an increasing share of the nation's R&D budget was coming from the private sector. The Administration sought to harness this private investment for public ends by establishing a series of public- private partnerships, formalizing coordination between corporations, universities and government. Examples included Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles (PNGV), to produce the technology for lighter, more fuel-efficient vehicles and the Partnership Advancing Technology in Housing, to spur the development and use of advanced technologies to radically improve the quality, energy efficiency, environmental performance and affordability of the nation's housing. The Clinton Administration also took steps to encourage direct private investment in research and development through patent reform, and R&D tax credit, and programs to bridge the digital divide. Finally, President Clinton recognized the critical importance of investment in the education of tomorrow's scientists. He significantly increased the funding for science and engineering programs and research at America's universities; the Department of Education and the Department of Defense, for example, earmarked millions for university research. Educating students is directly related to his larger objective of improving the basic scientific literacy of all citizens. The Bush Administration has, for the most part, built on the Clinton Administration's strong support for Federal R&D. Their FY 2003 Budget proposes an increase for Federal R&D of almost 9 percent or $8.9 billion over FY 2002 levels, bringing R&D funding to a record $112 billion. Notably, the rate of increase for R&D would significantly exceed the overall 6.8 percent increase proposed for overall discretionary spending. Increases would be targeted to defense, the war on terrorism and health and the commitment made by the Clinton Administration and the Congress to double NIH funding between 1998 and 2003 would be completed. President Bush also continued the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology, albeit with a heavier focus on industry participants rather than leading University-based scientists, and reconstituted the National Bioethics Advisory Commission. His budget continues research initiatives on Nanotechnology and Networking, and Information Technology, and added a new initiative on Antiterrorism R&D. The proposed funding increases for the FY 2003 budget for the DOD and NIH are laudable, especially in light of the transformative events of the past year. Those additional funds will aid the development of new technologies to fight the war on terrorism, help fend off future biological attacks and accelerate the process of discovering new treatments for cancer, AIDS and other illnesses. Nevertheless, the research and development funding in the FY 2003 budget falls short of its potential. While the overall research and development budget has increased, these funds are directed almost exclusively into the NIH and the DOD. Excluding the NIH, non- defense research and development spending is reduced by 0.2%, with many critical programs facing far deeper cuts. By failing to provide adequate funding across scientific disciplines, the budget threatens many key priorities. Double the NSF Budget First, the budget fails to adequately support the NSF and threatens the quality basic research conducted at colleges and universities. Discounting the funds allocated as the result of transferring three programs to the NSF from other agencies, the NSF budget is increased a mere 3.4%, barely keeping pace with inflation. The NSF is a model government agency. It performs its job funding university research and other educational programs with unrivaled efficiency. It is the only government agency to receive a "green light" in financial management from the GAO and the OMB. All other government agencies received either a yellow or red light. Moreover, the NSF is the only federal agency with responsibility for research and education is all major scientific disciplines. The basic research conducted with NSF funds is the foundation for all future R&D. A strong commitment to the NSF is essential to a broad-based commitment to research and development. The NSF's support for the science and technology research across all disciplines is crucial as the science becomes more complex and inter-related. For example, advances in medical care responsible for increasing American's life span could not have occurred without the underlying knowledge in the physical sciences. Magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound, laser surgery, and artificial joints and valves, which today we take for granted, were only developed with support from physicist, chemists, mathematicians, computer scientists, and engineers. Also, it is impossible to predict where the next scientific discovery that will drive our Nation's economic growth or protect our national security will occur. For example, today's discoveries in the field of nanotechnology are being used in the automotive, apparel, and cosmetic industries in ways those industries could never have foreseen just a few years ago. Finally, we need to be concerned about training the right mix of scientists and engineers, and other scholars to meet our economic and national security needs of the next generation. The NSF has an extraordinary impact on American scientific discovery. Eight of the last 12 American Nobel Prize winners were supported by the NSF at some point in their careers. The NSF also plays a crucial role in supporting university-based research, funding roughly 50 percent of all non-medical basic research at colleges and universities. The discoveries from these labs benefit us today and the scientists trained in them will benefit us into the future. I believe doubling the NSF's budget will strengthen our Nation's economy and security by providing support for advancements in science and technology research across all disciplines. A Manhattan Project for Energy Security Second, the budget fails to address the nation's needs in creating energy security. Our dependence on fossil fuels is not only a serious environmental problem but also a critical national security problem. 

*******************

Article 465

As you know, the new economy's success rises or falls on the quality of our schools, so we need to provide the resources enabling all our children to acquire the skills they need to compete in era of globalization. But the President has recommended $5 billion less for our public schools this year than we, and he, promised in the reform bill he signed into law in January. We must match that with a new effort to give more Americans access to high-quality higher education. As long as young people from high income families are seven times more likely to graduate college than young people from low-income families, billions of dollars in economic potential-and millions of human opportunities-will be lost.

We also need to make research investments and create smart tax incentives, including targeted capital gains cuts, to sow the seeds of business innovation-not to manufacture growth, but to spark it. We need a coherent, coordinated national strategy for broadband Internet deployment, which has the potential to deliver up to $500 billion in new annual economic growth to our economy. We need to invest in medical research, which in addition to economic benefits will save, prolong and improve lives. We also need to invest in R&D and use tax incentives to leverage economic growth in breakthrough areas like nanotechnology, which are already demonstrating the potential to remake and remap a whole host of industries.

Conclusion

All these elements of a strong economic growth strategy will require both leadership and bipartisanship to implement. Spenders will oppose every cut, and ideologues will try to thwart every high- growth incentive.


*******************

Article 466

Technology transition initiative (sec. 242)

Encouragement of small business and nontraditional defense contractors to submit proposals potentially beneficial for combating terrorism (sec. 243)

Vehicle fuel cell program (sec. 244)

Defense Nanotechnology Research and Development Program (sec. 245)

Additional Matters of Interest

Science and technology initiatives

Merit-based selection procedures


*******************

Article 467

Finally, the committee continued its effort to promote the transformation of the Armed Forces to meet the threats of the 21st century by adding more than $1.1 billion to the Navy's shipbuilding accounts to refuel a nuclear submarine and pay for advance procurement of an aircraft carrier, a [A>VIRGINIA<A]-class submarine, a DDG-51 class destroyer, and an LPD-17 class

amphibious transport dock. The committee recommendations would promote the transformation of the Army by adding $105.0 million of funding for research and development on the Army Future Combat System, adding more than $100.0 million for science and technology needed to help the Army achieve its Objective Force, and by providing $96.3 million for nine additional Blackhawk helicopters. The committee recommendations would advance the transformation of the Air Force by fully funding the $5.2 billion requested by the Department for the F-22, the $3.5 billion requested for continued research and development on the Joint Strike Fighter, and the more than $1.0 billion requested for unmanned aerial vehicles.

The committee also recommends a number of legislative initiatives to promote military transformation. These include: an initiative to address major shortcomings in the Department's test and evaluation infrastructure that have led to inadequate testing of major weapons systems; a technology transition initiative to ensure that new technologies developed in the Department's science and technology programs are rapidly fielded in weapons systems for our warfighters; and a nanotechnology initiative to ensure that the Department has a focused approach to this emerging area of technology. The committee recommendations would also add more than $170.0 million to the Department's science and technology budget, bringing the Department closer to the Secretary's goal of devoting 3 percent of all defense funds to the programs that promise to bring us the revolutionary technologies that will be needed to prevail in future conflicts.

Today, America's Armed Forces are capable and ready to help keep the peace, deter traditional and nontraditional threats to our security and our vital interests around the world, and win any conflict decisively. Working together, Congress and the executive branch must build on the considerable strengths of our military forces and their record of success by preserving a high quality of life for U.S. forces and their families, sustaining readiness, and transforming the Armed Forces to meet the threats and challenges of tomorrow. The committee believes that the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 would take an important step in that direction.


*******************

Article 468

An investment of approximately $37 million will increase annual stipends for graduate fellows to $25,000 to attract more of the nation's most promising students to science and engineering.

The budget also includes funding for six priority areas, including $221 million for nanotechnology research, $286 million for information technology research, and $60 million as part of a new priority area in mathematical and statistical sciences research that will ultimately advance interdisciplinary science and engineering. $185 million is directed toward NSF's Learning for the 21St Century Workforce priority area - including $20 million to fund three to four new multi-disciplinary, multi- institutional Science of Learning Centers to enhance our understanding of how we learn, how the brain stores information, and how we can best use new information technology to promote learning.

We are also requesting $10 million to seed a new priority area in the social, behavioral, and economic sciences to explore the complex interactions between new technology and society so that we can better anticipate and prepare for their consequences.



*******************

Article 469

Interagency Initiatives

The budget increases funding for a number of priority research areas that require multi-agency efforts. Information technology, nanotechnology, and health research continue to be high priorities for our Nation. The past year also has seen an increase in priority for climate change R&D. After the events of September 11th, antiterrorism efforts naturally lead the list.

Antiterrorism - our success in preventing, detecting, and responding to terrorist activities over the long term will depend on technology. The President's FY 2003 Budget continues the Administration's strong support of research and development to counter emerging terrorist threats by increasing R&D funding for homeland security and combating terrorism (including protecting critical infrastructure) from nearly $1 billion in 2002 to an estimated $3 billion in 2003.

The National Nanotechnology Initiative will increase by 17 percent over last year. This $679 million multi-agency initiative focuses on long-term research on the manipulation of matter at the atomic and molecular levels, giving us unprecedented opportunities for new classes of devices as small as molecules and machines as small as human cells.

Networking and Information Technology R&D will increase by 3 percent. This brings the overall investment to $1.9 billion in this mature, but still critically important area. It provides the base technologies necessary for the U.S. to maintain its dominant position in the application of information technology to critical national defense and national security needs, as well as to scientific research, education, and economic innovation.


*******************

Article 470

Each year NSF evaluates, primarily through external peer review, 32,000 proposals from 2,000 colleges, universities, and institutions. The value of the proposals is approximately $16 billion. NSF annually makes 10,000 awards, totaling nearly $3 billion, in a highly competitive merit review process. It is estimated that NSF proposals representing an additional $5 billion are worthy of investment if the funds were available.

The Health of the Science and Engineering Enterprise

The new knowledge and technologies emerging today are a tribute to Federal research investments made years ago in a spirit of bipartisanship. When those investments began, no one could foresee their future impact.Revolutionary advances such as those in information technology, nanotechnology, materials, and biotechnology remind us that such breakthroughs with promising benefits to the economy, the workforce, our educational systems, and national security require long-term, high-risk investments.

Among Federal agencies, NSF has the unique mission of advancing the Nation's health, prosperity, and welfare by supporting research and education in all fields of science and engineering. NSF plays a critical role in supporting new discoveries and knowledge as well as innovative educational programs at all levels. NSF-funded research and education are critical to sustaining U.S. strength in science and technology, a key element of national security.


*******************

Article 471

Advance core programs for research and education. One important indicator of the problem we face is the number of top-rated proposals not funded by NSF because of insufficient resources. Presently, that number is 13 percent. Top quality people whose proposals are not funded will seek other projects or leave the research enterprise. If we concentrate our top people in high- paying jobs in the commercial world, the research enterprise in federal research labs and research universities will be the loser. We need to keep the best in research by allowing them to work. The immediate appeal of AAU and the research community is for additional funding for these highest quality proposals. The proposed increase in your bill would enable more of the top-rated proposals and top-rated people to be funded and would also strengthen NSF's important education programs.

Let me give you an example from my university. One of our star junior faculty members, an assistant professor in the Department of Geology, has developed a technique called biological forces microscopy to directly measure at the nanoscale the forces between a living cell (biomolecule) and a material surface. This basic research on the interface between biological and mineral surfaces is visionary work that fits NSF, though possibly not other agencies. This research has enormous implications to the environmental and medical sciences, with asbestos poisoning being just one example. His recent proposal to

NSF in nanotechnology has been rated as top quality and recommended for funding. If resources at NSF cannot be found to fund his proposal, his ability to pursue this vitally important line of investigation will be in jeopardy.

Continue supporting key initiatives. Nanotechnology; biocomplexity; information technology research; workforce development (including math and science partnerships); mathematics research; and social and behavioral sciences have all been identified as fields ripe for advances and keys to the nation's future. Your legislation would drive progress in these critical areas.

Increase grant size and duration. The average NSF grant awarded in FY2001 was $93,000 and lasted for just under three years. By comparison, the average NIH grant in FY2000 was $338,000 and lasted for just over four years. Increasing the size and length of time of grants will enable highly rated researchers to concentrate on discovery rather than paperwork. 

*******************

Article 472

This fascinating phenomenon appeared to be a powerful means of controlling the thermal process. As an aside, I wondered whether nature had taken advantage of this phenomenon. Asking a graduate student to take a leap of faith, we delved into an exploration to find examples of biological thin films that utilize the phenomenon. We found that butterflies do in fact have thin films optimized to serve multifunctions as signaling as well as collecting solar energy. The NSF Biology Division funded a project to develop an innovative tool to examine these structures. Our results found an amazing array of complex thin film structures, some that looked like spherical mirrors and others like pine trees in a forest. Why and how these structures are created is a subject of interest and debate among academic communities.

These complex structures inspired my research team to look into emerging research areas in microelectromechanical systems and nanotechnologies. How can we create these microscale structures in innovative ways to serve interesting engineering functions? NSF's Engineering Directorate again is supporting my team's research into rapid manufacturing of microscale and mesoscale structures. This research may lead to new means of developing sensors and actuators to be used in Homeland Security as pathogen detectors or to create high throughput scanners to discover life saving drugs. Through NSF's support of basic and applied research, we have been able to make a number of key findings that have linked together progressively.

Other Tufts engineering faculty have obtained NSF support for fundamental studies into fibrous protein structure assembly for the past six years. These studies are supported through the Divisions of Materials Research, Bioengineering and Biology. The scientific insights gained from these studies have provided an improved understanding of this important family of structural proteins (e.g., collagens, silks). This information has led to the direct use of these proteins in new biomaterials applications and in new tissue engineering studies. The result of these efforts have included a variety of clinically relevant studies supported through the NIH, new interdisciplinary studies and opportunities for undergraduate, graduate and post-graduate students, and new spin-off companies based on the findings. Other engineering faculty at Tufts are working on NSF-funded projects that will revolutionize mammography techniques by using optical spectroscopy for imaging of human tissues.


*******************

Article 473

Interdisciplinary biological nanoscience research

The budget request included $175.6 million in PE 61101E for multidisciplinary science basic research, and included $9.3 million for specific research in nanostructure biology.

The committee views the Nanostructure in Biology program as potentially providing new and unprecedented opportunities to exploit a wide range of bio-functionality in a number of military application areas, including chemical and biological sensing, diagnostics, and therapeutics. Potential innovations in this area include the development of algorithms for real-time atomic level resolution of molecules. Such resolution techniques could provide unique threat countermeasures, biomolecular sensors and motors, drug delivery devices, and advanced wound healing techniques, all sharing the potential for providing far-reaching applications in future battlefield environments.

The committee notes the ongoing research involving nanospheres, nano-biosensors, and multi-crystal equipment, and encourages further work in this area for detecting cytotoxicity. The committee recognizes the unique benefit of interdisciplinary studies and strongly supports further investment in this area.

The committee recommends $10.8 million in PE 61101E for the Nanostructure Biology program, an increase of $1.5 million, for interdisciplinary biological nanoscience research.


*******************

Article 474

"(A) developing data addressing carbon losses and gains in soils and plants (including trees) and the exchange of methane and nitrous oxide from agriculture;

"(B) understanding how agricultural and forestry practices affect the sequestration of carbon in soils and plants (including trees) and the exchange of other greenhouse gases, including the effects of new technologies such as biotechnology and nanotechnology;

"(C) developing cost-effective means of measuring and monitoring changes in carbon pools in soils and plants (including trees), including computer models;

"(D) evaluating the linkage between federal conservation programs and carbon sequestration;

"(E) developing methods, including remote sensing, to measure the exchange of carbon and other greenhouse gases sequestered, and to evaluate leakage, performance, and permanence issues; and

"(F) assessing the applicability of the results of research conducted under this subsection for developing methods to account for the impact of agricultural activities (including forestry) on the exchange of greenhouse gases.


*******************

Article 475

At the same time, even as science and technology help us tackle these complicated problems, developments in science and technology surely will open up new challenges and opportunities that today we can only dimly imagine. Indeed, new avenues of scientific research may produce technologies as revolutionary in their security, economic and social implications as information technology has been since the mid- 1980s.

One area of biotechnical research alone, nanotechnology, could have enormous implications -- some thrilling, others chilling -- for terrorism, defense, health, development and the world economy.

In the months and years to come, the Department of State will continue to need the help of the National Academies in bringing your collective knowledge, experience and expert judgment to bear as we seek to understand complex issues and to work within the international community to address them. I ask you to help keep us abreast of breakthroughs, like genetically modified foods that can help fulfill the promise of a prosperous, healthy, stable world; help us also to comprehend, to anticipate and to guard against the dangers that can befall us, should technologies fall into the hands of those who would use them to do harm.


*******************

Article 476

At the same time, even as science and technology help us tackle these complicated problems, developments in science and technology surely will open up new challenges and opportunities that today we can only dimly imagine. Indeed, new avenues of scientific research may produce technologies as revolutionary in their security, economic and social implications as information technology has been since the mid- 1980s.

One area of biotechnical research alone, nanotechnology, could have enormous implications -- some thrilling, others chilling -- for terrorism, defense, health, development and the world economy.

In the months and years to come, the Department of State will continue to need the help of the National Academies in bringing your collective knowledge, experience and expert judgment to bear as we seek to understand complex issues and to work within the international community to address them. I ask you to help keep us abreast of breakthroughs, like genetically modified foods that can help fulfill the promise of a prosperous, healthy, stable world; help us also to comprehend, to anticipate and to guard against the dangers that can befall us, should technologies fall into the hands of those who would use them to do harm.


*******************

Article 477

opportunities that today we can only dimly imagine.

Indeed, new avenues of scientific research may produce technologies as revolutionary in their security, economic and social implications as information technology has been since the mid-1980s. One area of biotechnical research alone, nanotechnology, could have enormous implications -- some thrilling, others chilling -- on terrorism, defense, health, development and the world economy.

In the months and years to come, the Department of State will continue to need the help of the National Academies in bringing your collective knowledge, experience and expert judgment to bear as we seek to understand complex issues and to work within the international community to address them.


*******************

Article 478

The Technology Administration

The Office of Technology Policy. In support of the President's priorities for science, technology, and U.S. competitiveness, the Technology Administration's Office of Technology Policy develops and advocates national policies and initiatives that support the use of technology to build America's economic strength. Its activities include:

C Promoting innovation through leadership and advocacy of policies that encourage research, development, and commercialization of new technologies (such as nanotechnology and biotechnology);

C Representing the interests of U.S. innovators and entrepreneurs in international forums and partnerships;

C Working with states, localities, and Federal labs to institute policies that promote technology-led economic development;

C Fostering national workforce policies that promote and improve the education and training of future scientists and engineers, and by recognizing excellence through the National Medal of Technology program;


*******************

Article 479

Our total budget is some $10 million per year, so we count on the complementary programs from the federal sector to help our businesses. As our own state budgets have declined, and as the availability of venture capital has also dried up-particularly at the seed and early stages-we count even more on these valuable programs to help our companies and our state progress.

The two programs that support businesses at the very early stages of R&D, before the venture capitalists will deal with them, are the ATP and Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR), but ATP is typically earlier stage and has larger scale projects. Virginia companies have done very well in winning SBIR awards. For several years running, we have ranked third among the states in total numbers of awards. We are working, like many other states, to improve how that early stage research is commercialized and moved into the economy. Virginia companies have not won very many ATPs, winning or participating in between one and five projects per year over the life of the program, but the ones we do win are in some of the most promising technologies - transgenics, nanotechnology, and networking. These companies would not ordinarily receive venture capital for such projects because of the stage of development of the technologies, and often because they are not located in parts of the state with a strong venture capital community - places like Bristol, on the Virginia- Tennessee border, and Blacksburg, home to one of our strongest research universities, but far from where most venture capital firms are concentrated.

In the last two years, CIT has established a good working relationship with ATP's management, and we are focusing currently on raising awareness in the state as well as addressing what some perceive as barriers to participation on the university side. For example,

The Virginia General Assembly has requested CIT and a number of other stakeholders to; develop a statewide policy and uniform standard for the commercialization of intellectual


*******************

Article 480

Each year NSF evaluates, primarily through external peer review, 32,000 proposals from 2,000 colleges, universities, and institutions. The value of the proposals is approximately $16 billion. NSF annually makes 10,000 awards, totaling nearly $3 billion, in a highly competitive merit review process. It is estimated that proposals representing an additional $5 billion are worthy of investment if the funds were available.

The Health of the Science and Engineering Enterprise

The new knowledge and technologies emerging today are a tribute to Federal research investments made years ago in a spirit of bipartisanship. When those investments began, no one could foresee their future impact. Revolutionary advances such as those in information technology, nanotechnology, materials, and biotechnology remind us that such breakthroughs with promising benefits to the economy, the workforce, our educational systems, and national security require long-term, high-risk investments.

Among Federal agencies, NSF has the unique mission of advancing the Nation's health, prosperity, and welfare by supporting research and education in all fields of science and engineering. NSF plays a critical role in supporting new discoveries and knowledge as well as innovative educational programs at all levels. NSF-funded research and education are critical to sustaining U.S. strength in science and technology, a key element of national security.


*******************

Article 481

One of the highlights of the budget is a second installment of $200 million for the national five-year, $1 billion Math and Science Partnership Program. The program links local schools with colleges and universities to improve pre-K -12 math and science education, train teachers, and create innovative ways to raise the performance of all students and schools.

4/9/02 1:19 PM An investment of approximately $37 million will increase annual stipends for graduate fellows to $25,000 to attract more of the nation's most promising students to science and engineering.

The budget will also includes funding for six priority areas, including $221 million for nanotechnology research, $286 million for information technology research, and $60 million as part of a new priority area in mathematical and statistical sciences research that will ultimately advance interdisciplinary science and engineering. $185 million is directed toward NSF's Learning for the 21St Century Workforce priority area - including $20 million to fund three to four new multi-disciplinary, multi- institutional Science of Learning Centers to enhance our understanding of how we learn, how the brain stores information, and how we can best use new information technology to promote learning.

We are also requesting $10 million to seed a new priority area in the social, behavioral, and economic sciences to explore the complex interactions between new technology and society so that we can better anticipate and prepare for their consequences.


*******************

Article 482

Sustainable. Objective Force units will arrive in theater capable of self-sustainment for 3-7 days and have a system of potable water generation and replenishment at every echelon. We are pursuing hybrid electric engine technology to decrease the dependency on petroleum products; power generation technologies to decrease the size and weight of portable power packs and minimize the use of external power generators. System maintenance is being simplified by reducing maintenance and replenishment requirements through crew performance of on-site maintenance and platforms that perform self-recovery.

The Objective Force design parameters will seek to achieve maintenance efficiencies and commonality across Joint and multinational formations. By reducing and pacing demand for combat consumables through systems commonality, standard caliber weaponry, reliability, maintainability, improved engine efficiencies, precision munitions, micro/nanotechnology and effective packaging, the Army's sustainment concept will ensure that Objective Force units represent a high-payoff investment in limited strategic lift capability.

Agile and Versatile. Objective Force units will be full spectrum, optimized for offensive operations, and able to reorganize on the move with Legacy and Interim Force systems. They will be capable of initiating combat on our terms at a time and place, with the method of our choosing.


*******************

Article 483

Each year NSF evaluates, primarily through external peer review, 32,000 proposals from 2,000 colleges, universities, and institutions. The value of the proposals is approximately $16 billion. NSF annually makes 10,000 awards, totaling nearly $3 billion, in a highly competitive merit review process. It is estimated that proposals representing an additional $5 billion are worthy of investment if the funds were available.

The Health of the Science and EngineeringEnterprise

The new knowledge and technologies emerging today are a tribute to Federal research investments made years ago in a spirit of bipartisanship. When those investments began, no one could foresee their future impact.Revolutionary advances such as those in information technology, nanotechnology, materials, and biotechnology remind us that such breakthroughs with promising benefits to the economy, the workforce, our educational systems, and national security require long-term, high-risk investments.

Among Federal agencies, NSF has the unique mission of advancing the Nation's health, prosperity, and welfare by supporting research and education in all fields of science and engineering. NSF plays a critical role in supporting new discoveries and knowledge as well as innovative educational programs at all levels. NSF-funded research and education are critical to sustaining U.S. strength in science and technology, a key element of national security.


*******************

Article 484

An investment of approximately $37 million will increase annual stipends for graduate fellows to $25,000 to attract more of the nation's most promising students to science and engineering.

The budget will also includes funding for six priority areas, including $221 million for nanotechnology research, $286 million for information technology research, and $60 million as part of a new priority area in mathematical and statistical sciences research that will ultimately advance interdisciplinary science and engineering. $185 million is directed toward NSF's Learning for the 21St Century Workforce priority area - including $20 million to fund three to four new multi-disciplinary, multi- institutional Science of Learning Centers to enhance our understanding of how we learn, how the brain stores information, and how we can best use new information technology to promote learning.

We are also requesting $10 million to seed a new priority area in the social, behavioral, and economic sciences to explore the complex interactions between new technology and society so that we can better anticipate and prepare for their consequences.


*******************

Article 485

A second area is in power and energy. I believe this is an enabler across the board for moving toward a more electric force. In this area, power generation, whether it starts as nuclear, diesel, jet or solar rays to go to electric power, and, I think, an enhanced emphasis on fuel cell work. Energy storage is important in terms of batteries, fly wheels, capacitors, energetics. Power management and control, energy conversion, catapults and the like, as well as directed energy -- lasers, microwave, millimeter waves.

And the third area is in a national aerospace technology area, which includes hypersonics, access to space, and advanced space technologies.

And crossing those three are areas that form a base, such as materials, nanotechnology and electronics. There are service-specific areas; I believe many of those were addressed in the testimony from the departments.

On the 19th of September, we formed a DOD Combatting Terrorism Technology Task Force. It included members from each of the services, special expertise for chem/bio defense, which is Dr. Anna Johnson- Winegar, who is here today. Science and technology, Dr. Charlie Holland (sp) is here. In the weapons area, SOLIC, special access programs, C3I, DARPA and DTRA, all represented to look at what could technology bring to our efforts to combat terrorism. I'd like to speak more about that in the second half, but I'd like to present one example that came out of that effort.


*******************

Article 486

The DoD R&E program is being crafted as an integrated science and technology approach to align with the desired operational capabilities described in the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). One of the goals set forth in the QDR is to shift the basis of defense planning from the "threat-based" model that has dominated thinking in the past to a "capabilities-based" model for the future. This capabilities-based model focuses more on how an adversary might fight rather than who the adversary might be or where a war might occur. It recognizes that future security threats include more than large scale conventional. Instead, the United States must identify the capabilities required to deter and defeat adversaries who will rely on surprise, deception, and asymmetric warfare to achieve their objectives. Consequently, we are shaping our S&T program to focus on transformation, the need for "Jointness", and a capabilities-based planning.

Investments in S&T programs are necessary today to broaden the range of options available to the warfighter tomorrow. Advantages we now possess in key technology areas must be maintained, while pursuing new technologies. Our S&T investment must transcend specific requirements. For example, our efforts in advanced electronics should dramatically improve the performance of avionics, regardless of whether the aircraft is manned or unmanned. Missile guidance and targeting should be precise and accurate, regardless of the launch platform or target. Materials will need to be both lighter and stronger-to protect delicate instrumentation in a satellite or the personnel inside a vehicle. Nanotechnology will have application across many of our desired capabilities and our expectations are very high for this emerging technology. And whereas it is science that fuels the generation of technology, and it is the application of technology that enhances capabilities, it is our efforts in technology transition that take technology from the laboratory to the field in an efficient manner.

S&T SUPPORTING TRANSFORMATION

S&T is a key enabler of transformation. It not only provides the technology for future warfighting capabilities, but provides opportunities for changing doctrine that govern the way future forces fight. We are focusing on the areas of knowledge, speed, agility, and lethality to change the face of war. We must, through our S&T investments, continually enhance our technological advantage to provide significantly advanced capabilities to deter future threats and when deterrence fails, ensure that our response is effective with few U.S. and allied casualties and minimal collateral damage. The war in Afghanistan has gone well, but this is no consolation for the families of the military members who have lost their lives during the current conflict. The decisions we are asking you to make regarding investments in S&T programs will be important today and into the future


*******************

Article 487

- High Energy Lasers: As we move to a more all-electric force this "electric" laser approach will be a key enabler to achieve unprecedented combat overmatch on the battlefield. The Army S&T program continues to investigate high energy solid state laser technology options for potential application on the tactical battlefield. In this effort, we are seeking to identify the most promising solutions to ensure speed of light engagement and laser weapon lethality throughout the spectrum of battlefield environments of weather, dust and obscurants.

- Basic Research: As the Army's mission challenges have increased, it has become even more important to maintain world- class quality in the basic research program. Investment in knowledge and understanding of fundamental phenomena to enable future technological development includes: support for academic research through the Single Investigator Program (e.g. microturbines, materials science, solid-state physics); investment in paradigm shifting centers (University Affiliated Research Centers (UARCs) such as ICT); support of industry-led centers through the Collaborative Technology Alliances (Communications & Networks, Advanced Decision Architectures, Power and Energy). A specific new thrust was added in 2002 with the selection of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to serve as the Army-sponsored University-Affiliated Research Center (UARC) for the Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies (ISN). The ISN will provide the Army with a corps of expertise in the development and application of nanotechnology for the soldier; including the creation of uniforms and materials that could help heal soldiers, protect against bullets, chemical agents or monitor a soldier's life support processes. Soldiers are at the center of Army Transformation. New technologies and developments by ISN in nanotechnology will bring significant progress in the Army's transformation of soldier equipment. The 2003 budget request includes funding for the creation of the Army Institute of Biotechnology Center, to identify, conduct research and transition militarily relevant biotechnology.

S&T WORKFORCE

We cannot achieve our goals without the top caliber scientists and engineers who develop these technologies for our soldiers. Recruiting and training S&Es remains a challenge. We are working to identify innovative approaches to recruiting, retaining and refreshing the Army S&E workforce. I will be sharing these insights across the department. I want to assure this committee that I am committed to ensuring the quality of our S&E workforce. Our soldiers depend on them.


*******************

Article 488

Laboratory Experiments and Modeling. Available information indicates that plutonium used in pit applications is stable; however, we must assess the effects of long-term aging. Plutonium's properties are among the most complex of all the elements. To study the subtleties of plutonium, we have combined advances in theoretical modeling with the use of sophisticated experiments. For example, we are using old pits and accelerated- aging alloys to determine the lifetime of pits. Accelerated-aging samples are plutonium alloys with a mixture of isotopes to increase the rate of self-irradiation damage so that the material "ages" faster.

Data from our materials, engineering, and dynamic experiments show, so far, that pits are stable. Livermore has conducted important experiments on old pits using advanced materials characterization tools such as our Transmission Electron Microscope, the most powerful such instrument in the NNSA complex. Using the Transmission Electron Microscope, we have discovered nanoscale (10 inch) bubbles that are likely filled with helium in the microstructure of aged plutonium. The plutonium appears to be accommodating the helium, which is created through self-irradiation, in a stable form. The presence of these bubbles was predicted theoretically using computer simulations of the radiation damage process.

Experiments at the Nevada Test Site. Livermore is conducting sub- critical experiments at the Nevada Test Site to investigate the properties of plutonium shocked and accelerated by high explosives. Matter can be ejected from the free surface of materials that undergo shock. The experiments characterize ejecta, which is thought to affect the performance of primaries in weapons. Performance is being studied as a function of plutonium age as well as surface finish and manufacturing technique. Results will affect estimates of pit lifetime and decisions about future production of replacement pits, and improve our fundamental understanding of performance.


*******************

Article 489

I should point out that Houston is also home to many of the wholesale gas and power trading companies that stepped in to fill that gap. Four of the top 10 wholesale electric power traders and six of the top 10 wholesale gas traders in the North American market have corporate headquarters in Houston. Some of the major trading operations headquartered in Houston include BP, Calpine, Coral, Duke, Dynegy, El Paso, Entergy-Koch, Reliant, Tractebel and UBS Warburg Energy.

And let me conclude by repeating what I said at the beginning: that Houston remains a healthy and vibrant community with a strong energy-industry presence. However, that Houston region and that Houston set of people are increasingly diverse. Now a few quick snapshots will demonstrate my point. Biotechnology operations are expanding in the Houston region, and now Houston is home to some 105 bioscience firms. Research and development continues to increase its presence in Houston, with NASA, the Texas Medical Center and major universities increasing their activities. The Texas Medical Center has received more than $2 billion in research grants since 1996 to study cardiovascular, cancer, cell biology and genetic research. The University of Houston receives some $53 million annually in research grants, and Rice University receives more than $50 million annually for grant research and training. Rice's Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology and its Center for Biotechnology and Environmental Nanotechnology is helping to drive Houston to the forefront as a center for nanotechnology development.

Houston also continues as a major international city, with some 75 nations having consular offices in the city. The Greater Houston Partnership estimated recently that foreign-owned firms and domestic firms with significant foreign operations now indirectly support some 38 percent of the Houston-area job total.


*******************

Article 490

Abilities in Auditory Pitch Recognition are Largely Inherited. Auditory pitch recognition is a complex process that allows us to determine the pitch or tone of a sound. In this process, the ears receive the sound signal and the brain interprets this signal to produce the pitch we perceive. Individuals with problems in pitch recognition are sometimes referred to as "tone deaf." Severe deficits in pitch recognition may be associated with speech and language disorders. It was long known that tone deafness can run in families. However, it was not known whether this disorder was due to inherited genes or to a common environment shared by family members. To answer this question, NIDCD Intramural scientists performed a large study on twins. The results show that identical twins scored much more alike than fraternal twins on a Distorted Tunes Test. The data revealed that approximately 70-80% of an individual's score is due to their genes and 20-30% due to other factors. The discovery that individual differences in pitch recognition are mostly genetic opens up the possibility of using genetic methods and information from the Human Genome Project to find the genes essential for pitch recognition. Identifying such genes and how they function will provide new insight into how the brain processes sound.

How Basic Biology Translates into New Technology to Help the Hearing Impaired. Over the past decade, NIDCD-supported scientists have been studying the amazing auditory capability of Ormia ochracea, a tiny parasitic fly with such acute directional hearing that it has inspired a new generation of hearing aids and nanoscale listening devices. Ormia can detect very small differences in sound-source position, a situation analogous to humans trying to detect who is speaking in a crowded room. This accomplishment is due to the unique anatomy of the eardrums of Ormia. The fly's eardrums are connected internally by a cuticle- based bridge that functions as a flexible lever. This unusual structure allows the membranes of the eardrum to vibrate in response to sound in two distinct ways, with different resonant frequencies. Trying to mimic the Ormia ear in silicon, engineering groups so far have developed prototype "microphone eardrums" that function "Ormia -like" as predicted but at ultrasonic frequencies. Additional research will be needed to generate prototypes that detect sound in the range of normal human hearing, that will be highly directional, fit inside the ear canal, and be affordable. Other applications of the Ormia- inspired silicon ear might include robotic listening devices. These latest findings have led to collaborations between neurobiologists and engineers to make a directional hearing aid that would be smaller, simpler and cost less than currently available devices.

Although hearing aid technology has advance rapidly over the last few decades, the various hearing aids available still do not function well in real world situations where sound from more than one source is present, and they are not particularly effective in restoring the listener's ability to cope with the problem of attending to a single speech source among competing speech sources. NIDCD-supported scientists are actively engaged in research to develop "intelligent" hearing aid systems that are capable of selectively locating and characterizing a sound in a crowd.


*******************

Article 491

Advancing Science and Technology

Chemistry and biology and their associated technologies have witnessed incredibly rapid advances in recent years, and, if anything, the pace of change is likely to accelerate. Rapid changes in biotechnology in particular in the next several years will shape new scientific and business methods and practices far removed from those of today. Moreover, many of the breakthroughs in the relevant sciences and technologies are likely to be promoted by combining them with other technologies - for example, nanotechnology, cutting-edge information technologies, and new materials science. Creative scientists and technologists could find new ways of putting such things together to advance their CBW capabilities. In essence, advancing science and technology will allow future proliferators - whether governments or terrorists - to enter the chemical and biological weapons game with a greater scientific and technological base on which to build their efforts.

Classic arms control will have difficulty in capturing this dynamism. Government bureaucracies are notoriously slow to adapt. International organizations are no less so. The vastly different rates at which science will move forward and governments can adapt require a broader approach that facilitates an ongoing appreciation of the evolving scientific and technological landscape in as close to real-time as possible. Engaging Industry More Productively


*******************

Article 492

FY 2003 SCIENCE PRIORITIES

The FY 2003 request supports major research programs that respond to DOE priorities and will contribute to the strength and vitality of the national research enterprise. Many of these research programs are conducted jointly with other Federal research agencies and are illustrative of the deep reservoir of scientific talent and resources that DOE brings to bear on critical national challenges:

Nanoscale science. The Office of Science is part of a Federal government effort to establish U.S. preeminence in nanoscale science, the next major frontier in materials sciences, chemistry, biology, engineering, and a host of other scientific disciplines. The goal: enabling the atom-byatom design of materials and integrated systems that will lead to important contributions to U.S. national security, energy production and environmental quality. Advancing basic knowledge in nanoscale science, and drawing on the Office of Science's unique core competencies and recognized interdisciplinary capabilities will enable the Office of Science and its Federal partners (NSF, DoD, etc.) to secure international leadership in this emerging area of science.

In FY 2003, fundamental research to understand the properties of materials at the nanoscale will focus in three areas: synthesis and processing of materials at the nanoscale, condensed matter physics, and catalysis. The challenge with respect to synthesis and processing is to develop a fundamental understanding of the nanoscale processes involved in deformation and fracture, the synthesis of ordered arrays of nanoparticles using patterning techniques, and the synthesis of nanoparticles of uniform size and shape. Work in condensed matter physics will focus on understanding how properties change or can be improved at the nanoscale and how macromolecules reach their equilibrium configuration and self assemble into larger structures. In catalysis, new work will focus on fundamental research to understand the role that nanoscale properties of materials play in altering and controlling catalytic transformations.

The goal of the nanoscale science initiative is to establish a fundamental understanding of structures and interactions at the nanoscale. Through this understanding DOE anticipates significant improvements in many areas: solar energy conversion; more energy- efficient lighting; stronger, lighter materials for more efficient transportation; better improved chemical and biological sensors; new methods to break down toxic substances for environmental remediation and restoration; and better sensors and controls to increase efficiency in manufacturing.

The FY 2003, budget also increases support for Project Engineering and Design of Nanoscale Science Research Centers (NSRCs), and initiates construction of the NSRC at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. NSRCs are user facilities for the synthesis, processing, fabrication, and analysis of materials at the nanoscale. NSRCs were conceived in FY 1999 within the context of an interagency working group on Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and Technology as part of the DOE contribution to the National Nanotechnology Initiative. NSRCs will serve the Nation's researchers broadly and, as with the existing Office of Science facilities, access to NSRCs will be through submission of proposals that will be reviewed by mechanisms established by the facilities themselves. Planning for the NSRCs includes substantial participation by the research community through a series of open, widely advertised workshops.

The NSRCs will be sited adjacent to or near an existing synchrotron or neutron scattering facility and contain chemistry, physics, and biology laboratories for nanofabrication, clean rooms, one-of-a-kind signature instruments and other instruments (e.g., nanowriters and various researchgrade probe microscopies, not generally available outside of major user facilities).

This research effort will also benefit from a new partnership, proposed in FY 2003, between the Advanced Scientific Computing Research (ASCR) program and the Basic Energy Sciences (BES) program. The partnership will focus on computational nanoscale science, engineering and technology as part of the Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology Initiative. ASCR's contributions to this partnership will consist of developing the specialized computational tools for nanoscale science focusing on using high performance computers to answer fundamental questions.

Genomes to Life. Microbes and plants are responsible for the initial production of essentially all carbon-based energy that we use, whether from oil, coal or biomass, and for the subsequent removal of the energy-related carbon from the atmosphere. Microbes and microbial communities also make up about 60% of the biomass on Earth. A deeper, genetically based understanding of these organisms, culminating in computational models of their function that can be used to predict and even modify functions or efficiencies, promises a revolution in energy and its environmental impact. For example, harnessing metabolic pathways in hydrogen-producing microbes or understanding how oxygen poisons a key group of enzymes, hydrogenases (capable of producing hydrogen only in the absence of air), could help to develop a more efficient, hydrogen-based energy economy.


*******************

Article 493

Measurement Laboratory

In 2003, we will complete construction in Gaithersburg of the new NIST Advanced Measurement Laboratory, a project which is both on schedule and on budget. The AML will be the world's best measurement laboratory, carrying out stringent measurements required by the semiconductor, biotechnology, telecommunications, and other high-technology industries. This work requires not only environments that precisely control vibration, temperature, humidity, and air cleanliness, but also new and highly sophisticated scientific equipment for making fundamental measurements and ever more precise standards, and advanced "clean rooms." The AML will support the U.S. semiconductor industry in manufacturing new generations of devices that are smaller and faster, including development of new materials for a wide range of applications and certification of length measurements to an accuracy of 1.5 nanometers or better.

For the Nation to reap the benefits of this new facility, it must be outfitted with modern equipment and instrumentation. Ultimately, we will need about 40 major equipment systems. This $35 million would buy the first 15 systems so that the equipment will be in place as the building is occupied beginning next year. The new equipment will support industrial and scientific needs such as lithography at feature sizes of 100 nanometers and less; electron beam processing that can make even smaller feature sizes and can be used to make standards for nanotechnology; one- nanometer resolution comparisons of surface morphologies and crystal structures at low beam voltages; determination of the unit of mass in terms of quantum standards; and very precise measurements of electrical quantities.

We also are requesting a total of $54.5 million in our construction budget, including two significant increases: m $15 million for building fit-up and relocation for the AML


*******************

Article 494

It is no accident that the United States leads the world in high technology, both civilian and defense. Our achievements are the dividends that flow from sustained public and private sector investments in research and development, coupled with America's entrepreneurial spirit and willingness to take risks. While the private sector must take the driver's seat, the Federal government does have an important role to play in ensuring that the United States remains on the leading edge of technology and competitive in the world's high-tech markets. This Administration is committed to ensuring our global technology leadership through forward-thinking policies and investments.

In support of the President's priorities for science, technology, and U.S. competitiveness, the Technology Administration's Office of Technology Policy is developing and advocating national policies and initiatives that use technology to build America's economic strength. Its role includes:

- Promoting innovation through leadership and advocating policies that encourage research, development, and commercialization of new technologies (such as nanotechnology and biotechnology);

- OTP is chairing an interagency group on technology transfer to improve technology commercialization practices and realize Congress' vision in the Stevenson-Wydler, Bayh-Dole and Technology Transfer Acts.

- OTP is also leading a series of discussions on innovation in America at the start of the 21st century. We will listen to our foremost experts from industry, the labs, and universities, learn the critical issues and challenges to sustained U.S. leadership, and then lead by proposing new initiatives and policies to maintain that leadership.


*******************

Article 495

An important objective of the NSTC is to guide individual agency budget priorities for R&D and to orient the S&T spending of each Federal mission agency toward achieving national goals. To this end, in late 2001 NSTC established an interagency Task Force on Antiterrorism Research and Development with several working groups to address broad categories of issues. The current working groups focus on:

-Chemical and Biological Detection and Response

-Radiological and Nuclear Detection and Response

-Social, Behavioral, and Education Sciences

Another working group - a rapid-response team - serves as an action-oriented team to grapple with emergencies that may arise.

Other, standing NSTC committees along with ad hoc working groups within the NSTC, provide an effective forum to resolve crosscutting issues such as nanoscale science, engineering, and technology; information technology R&D; and plant genome research.


*******************

Article 496

The Aviation Safety program will continue to develop and demonstrate technologies and strategies to improve aviation safety by reducing both aircraft accident and fatality rates. Some of the items that will be accomplished in FY 2003 include: flight evaluation of a synthetic vision system products integrated with precision approach and landing and display system concepts, flight evaluation of the next generation cockpit weather information system, and a smart icing management system for automatic management of ice protection systems.

The Vehicle Systems program will take advantage of the emergence of revolutionary advances in biotechnology, nanotechnology, and information technology to enable significant advances in the functionality of 21st Century aircraft. Some of the items that will be accomplished during FY 2003 include: completion of sector testing of engine combustor that reduce oxides of nitrogen emissions by 70 percent; development of physics-based models related to noise generation and propagation physics for airframe and engine noise sources as well as noise interaction between engine and airframe; and, demonstration of a dual channel regulated, integrated Propulsion and Power system test bed - the first end-to-end demonstration of a such a system including fuel cell power generation and realistic loads configured for aircraft requirements.

The Aviation System Capacity program will enable improvements in mobility, capacity, efficiency and access of the airspace system by developing, validating and transferring technologies that improve collaboration, predictability and flexibility for the airspace users, enable runway-independent aircraft, provide more access for general aviation operations. Some of the items that will be accomplished during FY 2003 include: completing models of the airspace system that include the capability to model the dynamic effects of interactive agents in the National Airspace System (NAS); select candidate technologies for experimental flight evaluation based on their impact on mobility either through reduced system cost, improved doorstep-to-destination time, increased trip reliability, and/or improved safety of small aircraft; and development of strategies to improve training and procedures to reduce misunderstandings between pilots and air traffic controllers.


*******************

Article 497

The FY 2003 budget request for the Office of Science is $3.3 billion in the "Science" appropriation, an increase of $4.3 million over FY 2002. There is also a request of $8.4 million for the Technical Information Management program within the Energy Supply appropriation. This budget maintains the Office of Science as a dominant Federal supporter of research in the physical sciences (physics, chemistry, materials, etc.) and mathematics and computational sciences. Science will continue to play a major Federal role in the life and environmental sciences and engineering research. I am very proud that OMB rated the Office of Science programs as "effective," a very noteworthy rating in the President's budget.

In support of its mission, the Office of Science has responsibilities in three main areas: selection, management, and conduct of research; operation of world-class state-of-the-art facilities; and design and construction of new facilities. Science facilities are essential to the vitality of the U.S. research community, and tens of thousands of leading scientists depend upon them for conducting cutting edge research. The FY 2003 budget will provide high operating levels for the Department's unique physics, materials and chemical sciences, life and environmental sciences, fusion, and advanced computing scientific facilities.The budget maintains the schedule for the Spallation Neutron Source, honors the commitment to the Large Hadron Collider (in Switzerland), initiates construction of a Nanoscale Science Research Center including Project Engineering and Design, and maintain laboratory infrastructure.

Basic Research in the Office of Science is performed through six major programs: High Energy Physics ($725 million) Nuclear Physics ( $382 million) Biological and Environmental Research ($504 million) Basic Energy Sciences ($1,020 million)

Advanced Scientific Computing Research ($170 million) Fusion Energy Sciences ($257 million)


*******************

Article 498

N. SMITH: Would you agree, Mr. Shea?

SHEA: Yes, absolutely. There's no question in my mind that there was an attempt made on this building in 1993. It failed. They spent the next eight years figuring out how to do it.

N. SMITH: I chair the Subcommittee on research that has oversight for the National Science Foundation and Doctor Corley, Doctor Bemet, NSF has, well they've done a lot with the nanotechnology that we've developed in our research to help search up there in those facilities. But I'm wondering, it's my understanding that NSF now has eight teams out studying, and Doctor Corley, Doctor Bemet, how are the data collected by NSF and these funded researchers being utilized in both of your studies?

BEMET: Well, I can answer they will be fully utilized in our study. Most investigators funded by the NSF would probably show results in the open literature and they would generally make available any of the results of their work. We would certainly want to have the full ability.

N. SMITH: Do you have some process or some organization that you're now inquiring and utilizing that in your studies, or is it just going to be if something...


*******************

Article 499

Computer-Aided Detection (CAD) - CAD involves the use of computers to bring suspicious areas on a mammogram to the radiologist's attention. Through a number of grants. NCI is funding research that will develop computer-aided diagnosis methods to assist radiologists in diagnosing breast cancer from mammograms. It is hoped that CAD will improve radiologists' ability to interpret mammograms so that both the number of missed cancers and the number of women unnecessarily sent to biopsy can be reduced. A number of grantees are exploring the use of CAD in breast cancer. Currently, there are two FDA approved CAD methods that are commercially available.

Imaging Agents - The NCI's Development of Clinical Imaging Drugs and Enhancers (DCIDE) program will foster and speed the development of promising imaging agents, such as contrast agents and their translation from laboratory to clinic. NCI will make its pre-clinical development resources available to competitively selected developers of a promising diagnostic agent or probe in order to remove a recognized barrier between laboratory discoveries and their entry into the clinic. To further aid in the development of promising imaging agents, NCI is launching a program to fund early clinical trials of novel imaging probes and agents. One of the agents under development in this program is a nanoparticle that specifically targets angiogenic vessels. This could potentially play a role in cancer detection, staging, and monitoring of therapy for breast cancer.

In addition to imaging technology, NO is investing in new biologic tests to improve our ability to identify cancer cells in their earliest possible stages of development. Among the research being supported:


*******************

Article 500

MR. O'KEEFE: Yes. It's the first thing we've really got in the back of our minds whether or not there's an objective or not. If you can't do it -- I mean, it's one of the issues that dominates the debate now in terms of any other destination beyond where we've gone for low-Earth orbit is the effects of radiation. Can we really conquer that? And the answer is I think you've got it right on. There's got to be a purpose, a set of objectives, a reason why you would expose individuals to the risk of that kind of activity that couldn't be accomplished by any other means unless you had a human in the loop. And then in turn do we think in terms very specifically how do you guarantee that safety regime. So as a default proposition, unmanned vehicles, probes and capabilities that provide information data whatever is a far preferred approach given that really rigid requirement for human space flight.

REP. SMITH: And the tremendous advantage of the new development of nanotechnology that can accomplish the robotic mission in a much more efficient, less costly way.

MR. O'KEEFE: Yes. Very good point, you're right.

REP. BOEHLERT: Mr. Lampson.

REP. NICK LAMPSON (R-TX): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.


*******************

Article 501

II.) The Intellectual Frontiers of Counter Terrorism

The events of 9/11 demonstrate that the future is likely to feature asymmetric threats to our national security interests at home and abroad. These threats, despite our overwhelming logistical and military power, will pose continuing strategic challenges - not the least of which is that, in a global economy, advances in science and technology are instantaneously available Only by investing in the frontiers of research can we maintain our nation's comparative advantage and develop capabilities that effectively counter threats from the "best available technologies." Fortunately, America's research universities, and UC San Diego in particular, stand at the leading edge of fields of research that promise to radically transform our military and homeland defense capabilities. These fields include:

- bioinformatics, where the shift from genomics to proteomics brings new capabilities in the identification and treatment of infectious agents, and the development of novel therapies and vaccines;

- sensor networks based on nanotechnology and chemical engineering that enable us to detect, classify, track and determine the source of potential threats to individuals, the environment, and civil infrastructure in real time;

- secure and intelligent information systems featuring "cognitive computers" that can learn, remember, model, and respond to data collected by sensor networks;

- visualization technologies that transform information on subjects ranging from brain functions to port security into secure, understandable and timely images for decision makers;


*******************

Article 502

Let me now turn to a few specific technical issues.

1.We must invest in the development of"artificial skins" that are sensitive to different type of stimuli (magnetic, optical, chemical and biological). It will require the development, miniaturization and improvement of the sensitivity of different nano-sensors and their integration into a single system on a chip. Nanotechnology is still in its infancy and sustained long term federal support in this area is critical. Cal-(IT)2 is deeply committed to this area and indeed this afternoon, there will be a workshop focusing on Sensornets at UCSD.

2.The need to extract vast amounts of additional data from the environment through wireless sensors will generate a vast new demand for bandwidth and potentially create vast amounts of interference. The engineering of a cost effective system to support such services will likely rely on interoperability of competing access systems, at least during times of national emergencies. We need to recognize the bandwidth bottleneck, the threat of interference and the challenges of fostering interoperability in a competitive environment, early in this process. Not coincidentally, Cal-(IT)2 has convened a workshop in May, involving University, Industry and Agency participants, that is focused on the policy aspects of Spectrum usage.


*******************

Article 503

Mr. Chairman, this is a good budget for science, and I look forward to working with Congress to see it successfully enacted. These science and technology investments will enable the Administration to: enhance homeland defense, national security and global stability; promote long-term economic growth that creates high-wage jobs; sustain a healthy, educated citizenry; harness information technology; improve environmental quality; and maintain world leadership in science, engineering, and mathematics. Let me now direct your attention to some specifics within this budget.

Interagency Initiatives

The budget increases funding for a number of priority research areas that require multi-agency efforts. Information technology, nanotechnology, and health research continue to be high priorities for our nation. The past year has also seen an increase in priority for climate change R&D. After the events of September 11th, Antiterrorism efforts naturally lead the list.

Antiterrorism: Our success in preventing, detecting, and responding to terrorist activities, over the long term, will depend on technology. The President's FY 2003 budget continues the Administration's strong support of research and development to counter emerging terrorist threats by increasing R&D funding for homeland security and combating terrorism (including protecting critical infrastructure) from nearly $1 billion in 2002 to an estimated $3 billion in 2003.

The National Nanotechnology Initiative will increase by 17 percent over last year. This $679 million multi-agency initiative focuses on long-term research on the manipulation of matter down to the atomic and molecular levels, giving us unprecedented opportunities for new classes of devices as small as molecules, and machines as small as human cells.

Networking and Information Technology R&D will increase by 3 percent. This brings the overall investment to $1.9 billion in this mature but still critically important area. It provides the base technologies to ensure that the U.S. maintains its dominant position in the application of IT to critical national defense and national security needs, as well as to scientific research, education, and economic innovation.



*******************

Article 504

TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS

Technology is reshaping our world in once-unimaginable ways, and the pace of change is accelerating. The prosperity of nations and companies will depend, in large measure, on their ability to harness the power of technology and deliver on its promise.

The Federal government has an important role to play in ensuring that the United States and American companies lead the world. This role includes:

-Promoting innovation through leadership and advocating policies that encourage research, development, and commercialization of new technologies (such as nanotechnology and biotechnology), and promoting the adoption of enabling technologies, such as broadband. - Supporting entrepreneurship by representing the interests of U.S. innovators and entrepreneurs in multinational forums and international partnerships, and through working with states, localities, and federal labs to institute policies that promote technology-led economic development. - Improving the innovation infrastructure by contributing to the development of national workforce policies that improve the education and training of future scientists and engineers, and by recognizing excellence through the National Medal of Technology program. - Empowering citizens by working with industry to increase consumer confidence and employ technologies in new ways for greater productivity and higher standards of living, such as in telemedicine and e-government applications.

The Technology Administration is the only Federal agency with the explicit mission to work full-time to maximize technology's contribution to the national economy and -- in so doing -- raise the standard of living for all Americans. This job is tremendously important and it has become even more so since the horrendous events of September 11.


*******************

Article 505

One of the highlights of the budget is a second installment of $200 million for the national five-year, $1 billion Math and Science Partnership Program. The program links local schools with colleges and universities to improve pre-K -12 math and science education, train teachers, and create innovative ways to raise the performance of all students and schools.

An investment of approximately $37 million will increase annual stipends for graduate fellows to $25,000 to attract more of the nation's most promising students to science and engineering.

The budget will also include funding for six priority areas, including $221 million for nanotechnology research, $286 million for information technology research, and $60 million as part of a new priority area in mathematical and statistical sciences research that will ultimately advance interdisciplinary science and engineering. $185 million is directed toward NSF's Learning for the 21st Century Workforce priority area - including $20 million to fund three to four new multi-disciplinary, multi- institutional Science of Learning Centers to enhance our understanding of how we learn, how we remember, and how we can best use new information technology to promote learning.

We are also requesting $10 million to seed a new priority area in the social, behavioral, and economic sciences to explore the complex interactions between new technology and society to better anticipate and prepare for their consequences.



*******************

Article 506

Science programs will emphasize the most significant national priorities - to find new sources of energy, meet the threat of weapons of mass destruction, and make an essential contribution to the Nation's technological leadership, itself the foundation for national security in the 21st Century. The relevance of our science programs to national security was clear in the Department's response to the September 11th attacks. Federal authorities used a decontamination formulation developed at Sandia National Laboratories to help rid Capitol Hill buildings of anthrax. In addition, local officials throughout the country were helped by sharing a high-tech mapping program with demographic and traffic information designed jointly by Los Alamos and Sandia National Laboratories to protect against terrorism in U.S. cities by simulating terrorist attacks and assessing emergency preparedness.

The Department is requesting $3.3 billion for Science programs in FY 2003, an increase over FY 2002. The budget funds approximately 83,000 hours of operation of the user facilities, an increase of about 15 percent over the FY 2002 level. The budget increases DOE's investment in facilities infrastructures and excess facility disposal ( $42.7 million, total) to ensure prudent stewardship of these resources. The budget also maintains major project schedules for the Spallation Neutron Source and contributions to the Large Hadron Collider. Funding also supports cutting edge discovery in nanoscale research, microbial science, and pursuit of a greater understanding of matter.

The Department's Environmental Management program will implement a recently completed top-to-bottom review to better ensure the cleanup of the Cold War legacies, and that future defense requirements, the security, health, and safety of individual Americans remains protected. On the basis of this review, the Department is requesting $6.7 billion for the Environmental Management program in FY 2003. This budget will have a new $800 million Cleanup Reform account out of which those States working with DOE can receive additional funds for alternate cleanup strategies that lead to greater risk reduction at their sites. Also key to achieving our cleanup objective is the Secretary's recent announcement of his intent to recommend the Yucca Mountain site for our Nation's permanent geological repository. Such a recommendation will bring us one step closer to permanently securing the nuclear materials currently stored throughout the country.


*******************

Article 507

These science and technology investments will enable the Administration to: enhance homeland defense, national security and global stability; promote long-term economic growth that creates high-wage jobs; sustain a healthy, educated citizenry; harness information technology; improve environmental quality; and maintain world leadership in science, engineering, and mathematics. Let me now direct your attention to some specifics within this budget.

Interagency Initiatives

The budget increases funding for a number of priority research areas that require multi-agency efforts. Information technology, nanotechnology, and health research continue to be high priorities for our nation. The past year has also seen an increase in priority for climate change R&D. After the events of September 11th, Antiterrorism efforts naturally lead the list.

- Antiterrorism: Our success in preventing, detecting, and responding to terrorist activities, over the long term, will depend on technology. The President's FY 2003 budget continues the Administration's strong support of research and development to counter emerging terrorist threats by increasing R&D funding for homeland security and combating terrorism (including protecting critical infrastructure) from nearly $1 billion in 2002 to an estimated $3 billion in 2003.

- The National Nanotechnology Initiative will increase by 17 percent over last year. This $679 million multi-agency initiative focuses on long-term research on the manipulation of matter down to the atomic and molecular levels, giving us unprecedented opportunities for new classes of devices as small as molecules, and machines as small as human cells.

- Networking and Information Technology R&D will increase by 3 percent. This brings the overall investment to $1.9 billion in this mature but still critically important area. It provides the base technologies to ensure that the U.S. maintains its dominant position in the application of IT to critical national defense and national security needs, as well as to scientific research, education, and economic innovation.



*******************

Article 508

TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS

Technology is reshaping our world in once-unimaginable ways, and the pace of change is accelerating. The prosperity of nations and companies will depend, in large measure, on their ability to harness the power of technology and deliver on its promise.

The Federal government has an important role to play in ensuring that the United States and American companies lead the world. This role includes:

- Promoting innovation through leadership and advocating policies that encourage research, development, and commercialization of new technologies (such as nanotechnology and biotechnology), and promoting the adoption of enabling technologies, such as broadband.

- Supporting entrepreneurship by representing the interests of U.S. innovators and entrepreneurs in multinational forums and international partnerships, and through working with states, localities, and federal labs to institute policies that promote technology-led economic development.

- Improving the innovation infrastructure by contributing to the development of national workforce policies that improve the education and training of future scientists and engineers, and by recognizing excellence through the National Medal of Technology program.

- Empowering citizens by working with industry to increase consumer confidence and employ technologies in new ways for greater productivity and higher standards of living, such as in telemedicine and e-government applications.


*******************

Article 509

One of the highlights of the budget is a second installment of $200 million for the national five-year, $1 billion Math and Science Partnership Program. The program links local schools with colleges and universities to improve pre-K -12 math and science education, train teachers, and create innovative ways to raise the performance of all students and schools.

An investment of approximately $37 million will increase annual stipends for graduate fellows to $25,000 to attract more of the nation's most promising students to science and engineering.

The budget will also include funding for six priority areas, including $221 million for nanotechnology research, $286 million for information technology research, and $60 million as part of a new priority area in mathematical and statistical sciences research that will ultimately advance interdisciplinary science and engineering.

$185 million is directed toward NSF's Learning for the 21st Century Workforce priority area - including $20 million to fund three to four new multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional Science of Learning Centers to enhance our understanding of how we learn, how we remember, and how we can best use new information technology to promote learning.


*******************

Article 510

Science programs will emphasize the most significant national priorities - to find new sources of energy, meet the threat of weapons of mass destruction, and make an essential contribution to the Nation's technological leadership, itself the foundation for national security in the 21st Century. The relevance of our science programs to national security was clear in the Department's response to the September 11th attacks. Federal authorities used a decontamination formulation developed at Sandia National Laboratories to help rid Capitol Hill buildings of anthrax. In addition, local officials throughout the country were helped by sharing a high-tech mapping program with demographic and traffic information designed jointly by Los Alamos and Sandia National Laboratories to protect against terrorism in U.S. cities by simulating terrorist attacks and assessing emergency preparedness.

The Department is requesting $3.3 billion for Science programs in FY 2003, an increase over FY 2002. The budget funds approximately 83,000 hours of operation of the user facilities, an increase of about 15 percent over the FY 2002 level. The budget increases DOE's investment in facilities infrastructures and excess facility disposal ( $42.7 million, total) to ensure prudent stewardship of these resources. The budget also maintains major project schedules for the Spallation Neutron Source and contributions to the Large Hadron Collider. Funding also supports cutting edge discovery in nanoscale research, microbial science, and pursuit of a greater understanding of matter.

The Department's Environmental Management program will implement a recently completed top-to-bottom review to better ensure the cleanup of the Cold War legacies, and that future defense requirements, the security, health, and safety of individual Americans remains protected. On the basis of this review, the Department is requesting $6.7 billion for the Environmental Management program in FY 2003. This budget will have a new $800 million Cleanup Reform account out of which those States working with DOE can receive additional funds for alternate cleanup strategies that lead to greater risk reduction at their sites. Also key to achieving our cleanup objective is the Secretary's recent announcement of his intent to recommend the Yucca Mountain site for our Nation's permanent geological repository. Such a recommendation will bring us one step closer to permanently securing the nuclear materials currently stored throughout the country.


*******************

Article 511

TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS

Technology is reshaping our world in once-unimaginable ways, and the pace of change is accelerating. The prosperity of nations and companies will depend, in large measure, on their ability to harness the power of technology and deliver on its promise.

The Federal government has an important role to play in ensuring that the United States and American companies lead the world. This role includes:

- Promoting innovation through leadership and advocating policies that encourage research, development, and commercialization of new technologies (such as nanotechnology and biotechnology), and promoting the adoption of enabling technologies, such as broadband.

- Supporting entrepreneurship by representing the interests of U.S. innovators and entrepreneurs in multinational forums and international partnerships, and through working with states, localities, and federal labs to institute policies that promote technology-led economic development.


*******************

Article 512

One of the highlights of the budget is a second installment of $200 million for the national five-year, $1 billion Math and Science Partnership Program. The program links local schools with colleges and universities to improve pre-K -12 math and science education, train teachers, and create innovative ways to raise the performance of all students and schools.

An investment of approximately $37 million will increase annual stipends for graduate fellows to $25,000 to attract more of the nation's most promising students to science and engineering.

The budget will also include funding for six priority areas, including $221 million for nanotechnology research, $286 million for information technology research, and $60 million as part of a new priority area in mathematical and statistical sciences research that will ultimately advance interdisciplinary science and engineering.

$185 million is directed toward NSF's Learning for the 21st Century Workforce priority area - including $20 million to fund three to four new multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional Science of Learning Centers to enhance our understanding of how we learn, how we remember, and how we can best use new information technology to promote learning.



*******************

Article 513

Science programs will emphasize the most significant national priorities - to find new sources of energy, meet the threat of weapons of mass destruction, and make an essential contribution to the Nation's technological leadership, itself the foundation for national security in the 21st Century. The relevance of our science programs to national security was clear in the Department's response to the September 11th attacks. Federal authorities used a decontamination formulation developed at Sandia National Laboratories to help rid Capitol Hill buildings of anthrax. In addition, local officials throughout the country were helped by sharing a high-tech mapping program with demographic and traffic information designed jointly by Los Alamos and Sandia National Laboratories to protect against terrorism in U.S. cities by simulating terrorist attacks and assessing emergency preparedness.

The Department is requesting $3.3 billion for Science programs in FY 2003, an increase over FY 2002. The budget funds approximately 83,000 hours of operation of the user facilities, an increase of about 15 percent over the FY 2002 level. The budget increases DOE's investment in facilities infrastructures and excess facility disposal ( $42.7 million, total) to ensure prudent stewardship of these resources. The budget also maintains major project schedules for the Spallation Neutron Source and contributions to the Large Hadron Collider. Funding also supports cutting edge discovery in nanoscale research, microbial science, and pursuit of a greater understanding of matter.

The Department's Environmental Management program will implement a recently completed top-to-bottom review to better ensure the cleanup of the Cold War legacies, and that future defense requirements, the security, health, and safety of individual Americans remains protected. On the basis of this review, the Department is requesting $6.7 billion for the Environmental Management program in FY 2003. This budget will have a new $800 million Cleanup Reform account out of which those States working with DOE can receive additional funds for alternate cleanup strategies that lead to greater risk reduction at their sites. Also key to achieving our cleanup objective is the Secretary's recent announcement of his intent to recommend the Yucca Mountain site for our Nation's permanent geological repository. Such a recommendation will bring us one step closer to permanently securing the nuclear materials currently stored throughout the country.


*******************

Article 514

The $2.4 billion request for energy programs focuses federal investment on future energy solutions, as recommended by the president's national energy policy, and the targets are indeed resources where our investment can make a difference. The FY '03 budget emphasizes the next generation of energy technologies, particularly hydrogen, high temperature super conductivity, it's being called.

We continue to provide benefits through the weatherization assistance program, and maintain a diversity of energy options that includes bringing new nuclear power plants on line by 2010.

At $3.3 billion, the science budget maintains core scientific facilities and major construction projects, increases operating time for the users of our facilities, and targets emerging areas of exploration, such as nanotechnology and microbial science.

The $6.7 billion request for environmental management reflects a dramatic new way to meet our cleanup objectives, resulting from Secretary Abraham's top-to-bottom program review.

The civilian nuclear waste management budget supports license application activities, if the Yucca Mountain site is recommended and approved as a long-term nuclear waster repository.


*******************

Article 515

MR. BROWNE: Yeah, actually I think there was. I think we learned to understand who we are, why we are here as a laboratory, our national security mission -- we were able to focus on it after Wen Ho Lee. And we were able to come together as a community of people at Los Alamos that turned out to have a sort of a rejuvenating effect on the institution. So I think there were definitely some positive things that came out of it.

MR. AUBUCHON: You know, you mentioned of course needs-based research.

And aside from your national security role you have talked about the spinoffs. I witnessed the fact that one of your invited guests here today at the head table is from the Council on Competitiveness. Could you talk a little bit about perspective spinoffs in the area of quantum computing, in nanotechnology? You talked about a security application of nanotechnology, but what else is out there?

MR. BROWNE: Well, I think there are significant spinoffs from all of this research for the economy. A lot of the types of nanotechnology devices certainly could be used in other products from, electronics to communications, that would affect everything from cell phones to other types of communication.

In the areas of things like superconductivity, we have a lot of research that comes out of our material science organization that is looking at improved ways for energy efficiency for transmitting energy across grids, but also for the development of more efficient motors that would allow us to cut our electricity demands and hence improve energy security in the country. So there's a whole raft of these types of spinoffs. It's one of the reasons I think that the national labs are important to our country, is that although we have these core missions that allow us to focus on problems like nuclear deterrence, they also can be brought to bear on other national problems, such as dealing with nuclear waste or nuclear power or economic competitiveness.


*******************

Article 516

High-speed broadband Internet access has become an indispensable tool for businesses, schools, libraries and hospitals, and access to this service is fast becoming the line between the haves and have-nots in the information age. We should create tax credits, grants and loans to make broadband service as universal tomorrow as telephone access is today.

DASCHLE: Over the past century, federal investments and research have helped split the atom, sequenced the genome, invent the microchip, the laser and the Internet, and help create millions of jobs. In this century, nanotechnology, robotics, advanced energy technologies like fuel cells and solid state lighting, and biotechnologies like gene therapy have the potential to do the same. We should double civilian R&D funding including the funding for the National Science Foundation. And we should fully fund the Advanced Technology Program to speed these innovations to market.

It's critical that the Congress provide funding for a balanced research portfolio. Increasing the NIH budget is important, but it should not be the sole objective of U.S. science and technology policy. Expanded investments in areas such as physics, computer science, mathematics and electrical engineering are essential to maintaining America's economic and technological leadership in the 21st century.


*******************

Article 517

Auburn University at Montgomery for instructional technology lab equipment 100,000

Bakersfield College, Bakersfield, CA, for science center technology, equipment and personnel 1,000,000

Ball State University in Muncie, IN, technology education project 600,000

Bay Mills Community College, Brimley, Michigan for instruction equipment and technology infrastructure 200,000

Ben Franklin Technology Partners of Southeastern Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to develop an associates degree program in nanotechnology at four community colleges in southeastern Pennsylvania and to establish outreach programs in local high schools 600,000

Beville State Community College in Sumiton, AL, for technology upgrades 500,000

Bloomsburg University: to provide computer wiring, computers and training for teachers in the 25 surrounding school districts. 100,000

Brookdale's Community College for design, acquisition and installation of the technology component of "New Jersey Coastal Communiversity" 500,000

Buena Vista University, Storm Lake, IA, for equipment 1,000,000

Cal State, San Marcos, CA, Center for the Study of Books in Spanish 300,000


*******************

Article 518

Nanotechnology Initiative

G6+2,000

Advanced Photonic Composites

G6+6,000

Spectrum Lab

G6+3,000

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES

240,374

250,874

G6+10,500

Corrosion Protection of Aluminum Alloys

G6+1,500

Active Hyperspectral Imaging Sensor Research

G6+4,000

Bioengineering/Nanotechnology Research

G6+5,000

FORCE HEALTH PROTECTION

26,952

39,452

G6+12,500

Interdisciplinary Research on Gulf War Related Ill- nesses

G6+6,500

Chronic Multi-symptom Illnesses

G6+6,000

GOVERNMENT/INDUSTRY COSPONSORSHIP OF UNIVERSITY RESEARCH

3,421

2,421

1,000

Program Delays/Execution

1,000


*******************

Article 519

DoD Biological Defense Science and Technology Efforts - Protection

Protection capabilities include non-medical and medical technologies. Non-medical protection includes efforts to prevent exposure to or the effects of biological agents. The primary route of exposure for biological agents is by inhalation. A variety of protective masks have been developed and fielded to protect individual from exposure. To protect against exposure as a result of contact, various protective clothing items, including suits, boots, and gloves, have been fielded and advanced systems are under development. Within the science and technology base, the following Defense Technology Objectives detail key protection efforts.

- Advanced Adsorbents for Protection Applications - The objective of this effort is to develop advanced adsorbent bed materials and compositions to enhance the chemical agent and toxic industrial materials air filtration protection capabilities of current single-pass filters and regenerative filtration systems under development; and reduce the size, weight, encumbrance, and cost of existing filtration systems. Technologies being developed include temperature and pressure swing adsorption (TSA/PSA) techniques to support regenerable filtration, and a variety of novel adsorbent technologies, such as carbon nanotubes; novel carbon, silica, alumina-based reactive sorbents; metal oxide nanoparticles, surface modified carbon, reactive impregnated carbon, novel structured carbons, and layered adsorbents.

- Self-Detoxifying Materials for CB Protective Clothing - The objective of this effort is to incorporate agent reactive catalysts and biocides directly into protective clothing and demonstrate their capability to self-detoxify. Technologies may include electrospun self-detoxifying membranes, N-halamine treated textiles, and materials containing reactive nanoparticles.

Medical protection includes efforts to prevent the effects of biological agents. Technologies include vaccines to protect against viral, bacterial, and toxin agents, and advanced delivery mechanisms. While advances in biotechnology and genetic engineering poses the threat resulting from the development of biological agents designed to defeat detection or protection capabilities, advances in these sciences provide powerful tools to protect against a broad spectrum of pathogens. Within the science and technology base, the following Defense Technology Objectives outline key medical protection efforts.


*******************

Article 520

This developmental effort would require some minor modification of COTS applicators, and testing to ensure proper procedures are in place to maximize agent neutralization in a building/ductwork environment. The effort could be completed in 6-8 months if the appropriate test facilities are made available.

The third technology is a nanoparticle regime that includes materials with particle sizes ranging between 1-100 nanometers (1 nanometer = 10-9 meters).Nanoparticles of metal oxides exhibit extraordinary abilities to react with and thereby destroy highly toxic substances and chemical warfare agents. Kansas State University (KSU) and their commercial adjunct firm, Nanoscale Materials, Incorporated (NMI), have been active since 1995 in developing metal oxide nanoparticles and defining their applications with regard to destructive adsorption.

Recently, it was also found that special formulations of these nanoparticles are active against biological warfare agents such as spores of Bacillus globigii, which is a simulant of anthrax. With respect to biological agents, nanoparticles have a positive charge that enables them to attach to negatively charged bacteria cells or spores. Once attached to the bacteria or spore the nanoparticle penetrates the cell walls of bacteria destroying the nucleus. For thick-coated protein cells of spores, addition of chlorine as a stabilized free radical to the nanoparticle formulation enhances their ability to penetrate these cells.

Since August of this year Marine Corps Systems Command has aggressively pursued this technology for a wide range of decontamination applications. This project is focused on developing novel dry powder decontamination technologies capable of neutralizing chemical and biological warfare agents. With appropriate funding this technology could be available for use as a biological decontaminant as soon as calendar year 2003.


*******************

Article 521

4. Water

All of these elements are commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) items with the exception of the proprietary photosensitizer. The shelf life of the photosensitizer is 1 to 3 years depending on the purity of the hydrogen peroxide used. Application of the mist shows coverage of 100 m2/10 liters in 9 minutes. I'd like to note that it has not been developed or evaluated as a room or ductwork decontaminant, but rather as a surface decontaminant; however, we believe that ESD can be misted into enclosed spaces or ductwork to effectively neutralize biological agents.

This developmental effort would require some minor modification of COTS applicators, and testing to ensure proper procedures are in place to maximize agent neutralization in a building/ductwork environment. The effort could be completed in 6-8 months if the appropriate test facilities are made available.

The third technology is a nanoparticle regime that includes materials with particle sizes ranging between 1-100 nanometers (1 nanometer = 10-9 meters). Nanoparticles of metal oxides exhibit extraordinary abilities to react with and thereby destroy highly toxic substances and chemical warfare agents. Kansas State University (KSU) and their commercial adjunct firm, Nanoscale Materials, Incorporated (NMI), have been active since 1995 in developing metal oxide nanoparticles and defining their applications with regard to destructive adsorption.

Recently, it was also found that special formulations of these nanoparticles are active against biological warfare agents such as spores of Bacillus globigii, which is a simulant of anthrax. With respect to biological agents, nanoparticles have a positive charge that enables them to attach to negatively charged bacteria cells or spores. Once attached to the bacteria or spore the nanoparticle penetrates the cell walls of bacteria destroying the nucleus. For thick-coated protein cells of spores, addition of chlorine as a stabilized free radical to the nanoparticle formulation enhances their ability to penetrate these cells.

Since August of this year Marine Corps Systems Command has aggressively pursued this technology for a wide range of decontamination applications. This project is focused on developing novel dry powder decontamination technologies capable of neutralizing chemical and biological warfare agents. With appropriate funding this technology could be available for use as a biological decontaminant as soon as calendar year 2003.


*******************

Article 522

Again, I'd like to note that it has not been developed or evaluated as a room or a ductwork decontaminant, but rather as a surface decontaminant. We believe, however, that ESD could be misted into enclosed spaces, possibly ductwork, to effectively neutralize biological agents. This developmental effort would require some minor modification of commercial, off-the-shelf technologies, some applicators, and testing to ensure proper procedures are in place to maximize agent neutralization.

Reactive nano-particle technologies involve a nano-particle regime that includes materials with particle sizes ranging between one and 100 nanometers. Nano-particles of metal oxides exhibit extraordinary abilities to react with and thereby destroy highly toxic substances and chemical warfare agents. Kansas State University and their commercial adjunct firm, Nanoscale Materials, Incorporated, have been active since 1995 in developing metal oxide nano-particles.

Since August of this year, the Marine Corps Systems Command has aggressively pursued this technology for a wide range of decontamination applications. This project is focused on developing novel dry powder decontamination technologies capable of neutralizing chemical and biological warfare agents, an effort to get away from the aqueous decontaminant.

It has shown some promise here lately as a biological killer. This technology could be available for use as early as calendar year 2003, we believe, given the appropriate resources.

*******************

Article 523

This appropriation finances the research, development, test and evaluation activities of the Department of the Army.

Committee Recommendations EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL CHANGES

(In thousands of dollars)

DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES 138,281 146,150 +7,869 Advanced Target Recognition using Nanotechnologies 2,000

PASIS: Perpetually Assailable and Secure Information Systems, Research, Training and Education 7,500 Scientific Problems with Military Applications 1,631

UNIVERSITY AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH CENTERS 69,147 77,347 +8,200 Center for Optics Manufacturing-Advanced Optics Program 3,000

Global Information Portal 1,200 Thermal Fluid Design Tool 2,000

Virtual Parts Engineering Research Center (Note: only for expansion of Design Immersion System Environment) 2,000 SENSORS AND ELECTRONIC SURVIVABILITY 25,797 28,797 +3,000

Passive Millimeter Wave Camera (Note: only for the purpose of providing additional flight worthy PMMW imagers to conduct flight tests in adverse weather, nap-of-the-earth navigation scenarios, including flight demonstrations of covert personnel location under the DoD's Personnel Recovery/Extraction Aided by Smart Sensor (PRESS) ACTD program) 3,000 AVIATION TECHNOLOGY 49,265 40,029 9,236


*******************

Article 524

These issues are relevant to both surface water systems and those relying on groundwater as their source, especially those using water from carbonate or other aquifers in which the water residence times are relatively short. Elevated portions of distribution systems are a concern, being more vulnerable to entry of chemical or biological agent than pressurized conduits. Something added to water does not have to be toxic; merely introducing taste or odor would be very disruptive if the goal is fear and anxiety.

How can we achieve early detection of chemical or biological agents in the water supply system in time to take corrective action before water gets to a water treatment plant or into the distribution system? We need better monitoring for early warning of the intentional addition of chemical or biological agent to the water supply. Water supplies are monitored routinely for a small number of contaminants and much less frequently for a large number of contaminants. Conventional laboratory methods are time consuming and require skilled analysts. Together, this means that problems arising from intentional acts may not be detected until chemical or biological agents are at the treatment plant, or worse, in the distribution system (some large U.S. systems, notably that of San Francisco and New York City have no treatment, other than disinfection). However, much can be done to improve this situation. Most analytical equipment is highly automated and could very likely be made more autonomous with new technologies. The chemical industry and some of our national laboratories are developing 'chemical analysis on a chip' for hand-held, portable, chemical analysis systems, and 'canary on a chip' for detection of hazardous compounds in the work place. With modification, such systems may be useful in routine monitoring of water supplies for a broad spectrum of compounds, both known and unknown. Innovations in immunoassays and nanotechnologies hold promise for rapid screening of chemical and biological agents. We shouldn't overlook time-tested methods like increased chlorine demand, taste and odor, turbidity, and other measures as useful surrogate indicators in conjunction with new procedures.

How can water supply system operations be reconfigured to provide greater interconnectedness among source water supplies and among potable water distribution systems? What might be the potential for groundwater or irrigation water resources shoring up contaminated surface supplies on an emergency basis? Interconnectedness means that in-place conduits allow the transfer from one water supply system to another. Interconnecting water supply systems offers greater assurance that if one component of the water supply system is lost then other water supplies may be put online to transfer water through stand-by conduits. Similarly, water distribution systems could be interconnected so that one locality may help another under emergency conditions. Mutual aid pacts could include water supply, laboratory resources, operating assistance, and repair response. Aside from the technical issues, how this systems approach, often called "regionalization," would work in practice requires cooperation on a regional (often watershed) basis. Historically, because of the fragmented nature of the water supply industry, there has not been as much attention to design for interconnectedness unless prompted after the fact by a chemical spill or natural disaster. 

*******************

Article 525

WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   GOLDMAN, LYNN R. (Dr.) (Professor, Environmental Health Sciences, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University)
   BAKER, JAMES R., JR. (Dr.) (Director, Center for Biologic Nanotechnology, University of Michigan Medical School)
   HAAS, CHARLES N. (Dr.) (Professor, Environmental Engineering, School of Environmental Science, Engineering, and Policy, Drexel University)
   BARBEITO, MANUEL S. (former Chief, Aerobiology Section, Agent Control Division, Biological Warfare Laboratories, Army)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Recommendations to improve Federal preparedness for decontamination needs in the event of bioterrorist attacks; importance of coordinated interagency response to potential biological attacks; obstacles to decontamination of biological agents used in terrorist attacks.


*******************

Article 526

University of Michigan

I am Dr. James Baker, a physician who is the Ruth Dow Doan Professor of Internal Medicine and Director of the Center for Biologic Nanotechnology at the University of Michigan. I am also the head of Allergy and Immunology in the Medical School.

I am a 14-year veteran of service in the U.S. Military, 12 of it on active duty, including service during Desert Storm. With support from the Defense Advance Research Projects Agency, the National Institutes of Health and NASA, my center is applying these technologies to a number of problems in biology including infectious disease therapy and microbial decontamination. I am also the CSO of a startup company, NanoBio Corporation, which is dedicated to commercializing new technologies for antimicrobial applications and decontamination. I have extensively studied the problems involved in preventing illness as a result of bio- terrorism or bio-warfare, and I am pleased to have been invited to testify before the committee this morning. 


*******************

Article 527

9. $106,510,000 for Integrative Activities, including $4,000,000 for the Science and Technology Policy Institute, $26,610,000 for the Science and Technology Centers, and $75,900,000 for Major Research Instrumentation (MRI). NSF is expected to continue its ongoing MRI program with developing institutions.

The conference agreement increases the budget request level for all directorates, and provides specific increases of $25,000,000 for information technology research, $25,000,000 for nanotechnology, and $12,500,000 for increased energy and fuel costs in the polar and ocean sciences as well as national facilities in physics and materials. The conference agreement also directs NSF to undertake a study to determine its appropriate role in support of regional innovation activities.

The conferees have not included funds from within the NSF appropriation for maintaining the integrity of the Homestake Mine site in Lead, South Dakota and instead have provided funding from within the Community Development Fund under title II of this Act. While the conferees acknowledge the role NSF and the National Science Board will play in determining whether the mine is a suitable facility for proposed research, as well as whether such proposed research should be a priority for the NSF, it is not appropriate for NSF to maintain the mine until such determinations are made.


*******************

Article 528

$1,650,000 for the new library and regional resource learning center at Spring Hill College; $100,000 for the South Alabama Medical Education Outreach Program; $2,250,000 for the University of Florida Genetics Institute; $2,700,000 for a new linear accelerator for the Baystate Medical Center; $1,200,000 for the Cancer Institute of New Jersey; $1,000,000 for the Institute for Molecular and Biomedical Science at the University of Arizona; $1,000,000 for the Stanley Scott Cancer Center at Louisiana State University; $1,000,000 for the Infotonics Center of Excellence in Rochester, New York; $500,000 for the Joint Collaboration on Advanced Nanotechnology and Sensors with the University of New Orleans, Louisiana State University, and Louisiana Tech; $500,000 for the Breast Cancer Program at the North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System; $500,000 for a functional magnetic resonance imaging machine at the University of Texas at Dallas and the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center's Center for Brain, Cognition, and Behavior; $500,000 for the Integrated Environmental Research and Services program at Alabama A&M University; and $500,000 for the energy efficiency initiative at the Carolinas Health Care System.

Complex at Jackson State University; and $1,000,000 for the PowerGrid simulator at Drexel University and the New Jersey Institute of Technology.

The conference agreement includes $7,000,000 for the positron emission tomography facility at West Virginia University; $2,000,000 for a linear accelerator for the University Medical Center of Southern Nevada; $250,000 for the research foundation of the University of Nevada-Las Vegas; $200,000 for the University of Nevada-Las Vegas to continue study of the biological effects of exposure to low-level radioactivity; $500,000 for a biomolecular nuclear magnetic resonance instrument at the Medical University of South Carolina; $1,000,000 for the Oncology Center of the Medical University of South Carolina; $3,000,000 for the National Center of Excellence in Photonics and Microsystems in New York; $500,000 for the Institute of Comparative Genomics at the American Museum of Natural History; $750,000 for the Inland Northwest Natural Resources Research Center at Gonzaga University; $500,000 for the Hall of Paleontology at the Field Museum; $500,000 for the Center for Catalysis at Iowa State University; $1,000,000 for the Human Genome Project at the University of Southern California; $500,000 for biomedical research at Creighton University; $500,000 for the Child Health Institute of New Brunswick, New Jersey; $500,000 for the Oregon Renewable Energy Center; $1,000,000 for superconductor research at Boston College; $500,000 for the Natural Energy Laboratory in Hawaii; and $800,000 for the Rochester Institute of Technology microelectronics technology program.

Basic energy sciences. The conference agreement includes $1,003,705,000 for basic energy sciences. The conference agreement includes the full amount of the budget request for the Spallation Neutron Source and the SPEAR 3 upgrade at the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory. The conferees have included $3,000,000 to initiate project engineering and design (PED) for three user facilities for nanoscale science research (Project 02-SC-002), and the budget request of $7,685,000 for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR). For purposes of reprogramming in fiscal year 2002, the Department may reallocate funding among all operating accounts within Basic Energy Sciences.


*******************

Article 529

Submarine composite sail

The budget request included no funding for development of composite material components for a submarine's sail area. A composite sail has the potential to improve operational performance while reducing total operating costs of future submarines. An effort to develop and test a composite sail is consistent with the technology insertion approach of the Virginia-class submarine program. Therefore, the committee recommends an increase of $2.0 million in PE 63561N for development of an advanced submarine composite sail.

Neutralization of facility threats

The budget request included $26.0 million in PE 63635M for Marine Corps ground combat supporting arms systems. The committee is concerned that technologies to neutralize and destroy threats posed by chemical and biological weapons have not been integrated into operational systems. The committee recommends an increase of $2.0 million for environmental testing, concept-of-operations development, and research and development to rapidly field operational systems utilizing nanotechnologies that are capable of clearing facilities of chemical and biological agent contamination. The committee directs that all applicable competitive procedures be used in the award of contracts and other agreements under this program.

Urban operations environment research

The budget request included $26.0 million in PE 63635M for Marine Corps ground combat supporting arms systems. The committee recommends an increase of $4.0 million for assessment, analysis, and development of environmental remediation capabilities to support the use of nonlethal weapons to minimize environmental effects. The committee directs that all applicable competitive procedures be used in the award of contracts and other agreements under this program.


*******************

Article 530

The Chair recognizes Mr. Hoeffel.

Mr. Hoeffel. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had intended to offer an amendment to this point to authorize funding for the Department for a nanoscale science and engineering research and development. Nanotechnology is an amazing new technology. Scientists are now able to see at the molecular level and therefore, able to build structures as they see fit, wholly new structures. There is a good deal of private sector research and academic research happening in this field. I know in California and also very much in the Philadelphia area but my staff tells me, Mr. Chairman, that you are very interested in this as well, and that you intend to pursue a free-standing bill in the area of nanotechnology, so I would withdraw this amendment, and to tell you I would love to work with you on that bill, and thank you for your cooperation.

Chairman Boehlert. Thank you very much. We are going to do a major inter-agency bill. Nanotechnology is very important to all of us. I am particularly close to it with the center, nanotechnology center at the State University of New York in Albany. Not in my district but in my state and that is something we should all be very interested in, and we will work together with the gentleman.

*******************

Article 531

A Revolution for Aviation Vehicles - Revolutionizing the airspace system alone is not enough. An entirely new level of vehicle efficiency, functionality and environmental compatibility must be achieved to meet the challenges of safety, noise, emissions and performance required in this new aviation system. The aircraft of the future will not be built from multiple, mechanically connected parts. The aircraft will have "smart" materials with embedded sensors and actuators. Sensors-like the "nerves" of a bird-will measure the pressure over the entire surface of the wing and direct the response of the actuators-the "muscles." These actuators will smoothly change the shape of the wing for optimal flying conditions. The control surface will be integrated with, instead of an appendage of, the wing, as they are today. Intelligent systems made of these smart sensors, micro processors, and adaptive control systems will enable vehicles to monitor their own performance, their environment, and their human operators in order to avoid crashes, mishaps, and incidents. Distributed as a network throughout the structure they will provide the means for embedding a "nervous system" in the structure and stimulating it to create physical response and even change shape. They will also serve as the means for sensing any damage or impending failure long before it becomes a problem.

These future structures rely on an emerging technology that builds the systems from the molecular, or nano-scale-known as nanotechnology. Revolutionary carbon nanotubes have the promise to be 100 times stronger than steel and only 1/6 the weight. We are at the leading edge of this technology, transitioning from fundamental physics to building actual macroscopic materials. Much work remains to be accomplished. If we are successful, an aircraft made from this material could weigh as little as half as much as a conventional aircraft manufactured with today's materials and could be extremely flexible allowing the wing to re- form to optimal shapes, remain extremely resistant to damage, and potentially "self-heal." The high strength-to-weight ratio of these nano-materials could enable new vehicle designs that can withstand crashes and protect the passengers against injury.


*******************

Article 532

The Committee commends the NSF leadership for their recognition of the needs of the mathematical sciences, and their efforts to provide the support that is required to meet those needs.

Within the general Nanotechnology Science and Engineering program area, the Committee urges NSF to consider a stronger emphasis on research that explores biological mechanisms at the molecular force level and then translates these findings up through hierarchical scales of structure and organization to provide unique designs for engineered devices. The primary technological impact of such research will be the development of enabling technologies to create new "adaptive/smart" sensing and actuation devices with applications that will directly impact technological advancement and the economy, including bio-inspired propulsion, locomotion, and actuation for robotics in the aeronautics, marine, defense, and space industries; and miniature and functionally complete mechanical systems for integration with silicon electronics.

The Committee is aware that the Foundation has plans to retire certain national facilities in radio astronomy despite considerable community interest and research need, until construction of the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) is completed. The Committee strongly urges the Foundation to consider innovative proposals to privatize these facilities operations as a cost-effective way to maintain critical community access to them while lowering the overall financial resources needed to do so.


*******************

Article 533

Research Support Activities 43,972,000

Total, STRS 343,296,000

Within the amounts provided, the Committee approves the following increases: (1) $1,000,000 in the Manufacturing Engineering Program for the development of standards pertaining to the exchange of electronic data; (2) $4,000,000 in the Physics program to provide measurements, standards, and test methods for the development of advanced nanotechnologies; (3) $4,000,000 in the Computer Science and Applied Mathematics program to develop new measurements, test methods, and guidelines for the protection of the Nation's critical infrastructures; (4) $2,000,000 in the Chemical Science and Technology Program to further develop measurement standards for in-vitro diagnostics; and (5) $4,000,000 in the Computer Science and Applied Mathematics Program for quantum computing. The Committee does not recommend funding for the Critical Infrastructure Protection Grants Program. The Advanced Technology Program was developed to evaluate these types of grant applications. No funding is provided for Commerce Department expert review teams. Presidential Decision Directive #63 clearly suggests that every department and agency of the Federal Government shall be responsible for protecting its own critical infrastructure, especially its cyber-based systems. While the program is laudable, it is clearly not the responsibility of the Department of Commerce to provide computer security to other Federal agencies; and, (4) under the Wind Research Program, the Committee recommends $2,000,000 for wind engineering and $2,500,000 to continue funding an existing cooperative agreement between NIST and Texas Tech University.


*******************

Article 534

The Committee reiterates its long standing interest in improving coordination and cooperation among the various R&D agencies under the auspices of OSTP and the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC). The Committee expects the President's Science Advisor will quickly re-invigorate the NSTC process by defining a key set of strategic issues and establishing a small number of effectively led interagency committees to move these issues through the policy and budget processes.

The Committee is strongly supportive of the interagency nanoscience and technology initiative and urges OSTP and the interagency working group to continue to refine and strengthen the emerging research, education and training objectives. As a supplement to the fiscal year 2001 request, the Administration produced a nanotechnology management and implementation plan. The report highlighted the key themes and management objectives as well as the various agencies' roles and responsibilities. The Committee directs OSTP and the National Science and Technology Council's nanotechnology working group to update that report as a supplement to the fiscal year 2003 budget request. The Committee is particularly interested in the efforts to transfer nanotechnology research results into applications and urges OSTP to ensure that the fiscal year 2003 report address this issue in detail.

For the past several years, the Committee has followed with interest the progress that has been made in high field nuclear magnetic resonance instrumentation and has requested OSTP to assess the future needs in this field. At present, the greatest impediment in this area is the lack of an available NMR with capabilities at 900Mz and higher. Several companies and the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory will soon test and possibly make available such an instrument. The Committee encourages OSTP and other agencies interested in this new technology to monitor the progress of these efforts closely. As these instruments become operative and available to the research community, it is expected that OSTP will move forward on an interagency initiative that will allow U.S. scientists to take full advantage of these new instruments. The Committee encourages novel linkages and collaborations among leading academic institutions and national laboratories to respond to these new opportunities.


*******************

Article 535

Permit me to elaborate slightly on one example of relevance to the energy theme of this hearing. Combustion is one of the areas primed for a major advance through simulation at the 10-100 tera- op scale. Quantitative analysis, led by Sandia lab, showed that scientists could for the first time link molecular level processes all the way to engineering scale devices. This is a pathway to significant advances within ten years in efficiency and emissions reductions for combustion devices. The implications are clear for meeting our expanding energy needs and stringent environmental demands simultaneously, while also advancing basic science in chemical reactive flow, turbulence, multiphase flow, and other areas that come together in a combustion device. This is why I strongly support the Committee's advancement of DOE's advanced computing proposals. It is part of the long-standing tradition of driving critical enabling technology through frontier research. The convergence of computer technology and scientific community commitment has been demonstrated over the last three years, without funding adequate to support that commitment. It is time to get on with the task.

The nanoscience initiative at DOE and at other agencies (NSF, DOD, DOC, . . .) is another excellent example of such enabling science and technology, and the Spallation Neutron Source under construction at Oak Ridge will soon offer to a national community of university, lab, and industrial researchers a powerful frontier capability to study advanced materials. Nanoscience and nanotechnology, which essentially seek to design and engineer novel materials at the atomic level, will have profound implications, from communications to life sciences to robotics and intelligent machines (another area roadmapped by DOE, together with NSF, NASA, and DOD, in a multi-lab effort). These are all critical enabling science and technology areas where the national laboratories, in conjunction with universities, can put together the needed large interdisciplinary teams, can build upon decades of accomplishment, and do the work that drives future mission success.


*******************

Article 536

The Committee recommendation includes $12,000,000 for the Department's Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research and $4,000,000 for programmatic activities at the National Center of Excellence in Photonics and Microsystems. The Committee's recommendation also includes $8,300,000 for the SPEAR 3 upgrade at the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory.

Additionally, the Committee recommends that the additional funds be used to support the following important activities: facility operations user support; completion of the Nanoscience Research Center project engineering and design; and additional work in computational sciences in materials and chemistry.

Nanoscale Science Research Centers. The Committee recommendation includes $4,000,000 for project engineering design work for three of five planned user centers for nanoscale science, engineering, and technology research. The Committee strongly supports this new initiative.

Construction. The Committee recommendation includes $291,000,000 to continue the Spallation Neutron Source, including $276,300,000 for construction (under Project 99-E-334) and $15,100,000 for other activities related to the project. The amount represents a $23,000,000 increase over current year funding. The Committee recommends $4,000,000 in project engineering and design funding at various locations (under Project 02-SC-002). The Committee also authorizes construction of the Nanoscience Research Center upon completion of the project engineering and design.


*******************

Article 537

Science and technology: We have funded science and technology. For those of you who are the cognoscenti, that is what is called the 6.1/6.2 parts of the budget. Basic research and what is called, I believe, advanced or experimental technology. This is the very front- end of the research and development system and we have funded 2.7 percent of the budget. Our goal is 3 percent. This 2.7 percent really needs to be compared not to what was enacted but to what was requested, because what was requested in both years reflects the Pentagon's sense of what are needed military capabilities in the future toward which S&T will contribute. A year ago that percentage was 2.5, this year it's 2.7. We're on a glidepath to 3.0.

Some of the items: high-energy lasers, nanotechnology, chemical and biological agent detection. If you have lots of questions about these areas, the specials are here to help you out.

Next slide please.

There was a question about transformation and one of the important areas in transformation is research and development. Here are some of the examples of items that are being funded and there's one more that's not on the list, but I think is a very important one because it tells you about the commitment of this department.


*******************

Article 538

Intense Pulsed Neutrino Facility. The Committee recognizes the value of such a facility in conjunction with the Spallation Neutron Source, but budget constraints preclude funding an intense pulsed neutrino facility in fiscal year 2002.

Nanoscale Science Research. The Committee supports the creation of several regional nanoscale science research centers consistent with the September 1999 recommendations of the Interagency Working Group on Nanoscience, Engineering and Technology of the National Science and Technology Council. The Committee also supports the efforts of the Department to seek the active involvement of the academic community in the development of these centers. However, the Committee reminds the Department that its efforts to involve universities must reach broadly and openly rather than selectively. Consistent with existing policies for current user facilities, discussions regarding the characteristics and equipment to be provided in these planned nanoscience user facilities should be open to all U.S. universities via published notice, workshops, and other formal mechanisms. The external users of the Department's resources must be determined through the competitive peer-review process. Any partnership arrangements between the involved national laboratories and academic institutions, or any other non-federal partners, must follow procedures to ensure full and open competition, as required by section 309 of this Act.

The Committee recommendation includes $3,000,000 to initiate project engineering and design (PED) for three nanoscale science research centers in fiscal year 2002. This is a reduction of $1,000,000 from the budget request of $4,000,000. Any additional centers should be requested as part of the fiscal year 2003 budget request. The detailed budget justification for fiscal year 2003 should also provide more accurate cost estimates for the three centers receiving PED funds in fiscal year 2002. The Committee expects the Department to maintain tight cost and schedule controls on these three facilities.

The additional $3,000,000 included over the budget request is to be made available for university research in nanoscale science and engineering.

Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR). The Committee recommendation includes $10,000,000 within available funds for EPSCoR, an increase of $2,315,000 over the budget request and $3,185,000 over fiscal year 2001.


*******************

Article 539

BEYOND SILICON COMPLEMENTARY METAL OXIDE SEMICONDUCTORS

We are approaching the end of a remarkably successful era in computing - the era in which Moore's Law reigned and where processing power per dollar doubled every year. In large part, this success was a result of advances in complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS)-based integrated circuits. Although we have come to expect, and plan for, the exponential increase in processing power in our everyday lives, today Moore's Law faces imminent challenges both from the physics of deep-submicron CMOS devices and from the enormous costs of next generation fabrication plants. This situation requires DoD to consider a radically different approach to the fabrication of logic and memories - a program we call Beyond Silicon CMOS.

The Beyond Silicon CMOS thrust is starting in FY 2001. The initiative is aimed at maintaining the phenomenal progress in microelectronics innovation that has served military systems designers so well over the last 30 years. Taking advantage of advanced materials deposition and processing techniques that enable increasing control over material and device structures down to nanoscale dimensions, the Beyond Silicon MOS initiative will enable low-cost-to-manufacture, reliable, fast, and secure information systems critical to meet future military needs. Because the transistors can be made so small, we can make chips with a very large number of transistors per chip, which allows greater fault tolerance and high speed (future microprocessors based on these technologies will run at speeds 10 to 100 times faster than today's best gigahertz-level clock rates). And, with the resulting greater computational power, we will be able to run more complex algorithms to improve security. In the case of the ultimate computers that exploit quantum mechanical effects, we will be able to make use of physical phenomena not available in today's electronic devices to achieve computational capabilities unavailable by traditional techniques.

With a goal to develop new device capabilities, DARPA is exploring options such as non-silicon-based semiconducting materials, including organic and amorphous materials. Components and systems leveraging quantum effects, and innovative approaches to computing designs incorporating these components, will allow low-cost, seamless, "pervasive computing" (making generally available the kind of computing power normally associated with large computing facilities); ultra-fast computing; and sensing and actuation devices. Much as today's desktop computers have the power of the super-computers of a decade or so ago, these chip-scale computers will enable super- computer-like capabilities in portable machines. The military impact could be, for example, to enable a computationally intense synthetic aperture radar capability on a small unmanned air vehicle.The Beyond Silicon CMOS thrust is composed of five programs that will develop new capabilities from promising information processing components using both inorganic and organic substrates and components and systems leveraging quantum effects and chaos.

The first of the Beyond Silicon CMOS programs is Antimonide Based Compound Semiconductors (ABCS). Its goal is to develop low-power, high-frequency electronics circuits and infrared sources based on the antimonide family of compound semiconductors. Specific goals include circuits with over 104 devices per circuit operating at frequencies above 100 gigahertz and consuming less than one femtowatt (10(-12) Joules per second) - a two-order-of magnitude improvement over today's capabilities (i.e., 10 times faster, consuming one-tenth the power). Specific infrared source goals include operating above thermoelectric- cooled temperatures, with much greater efficiency for continuous wave, mid-wave infrared and single-mode operation in the long-wave infrared range. In FY 2001, this program is demonstrating non-silicon-based transistor technologies and nanostructured materials for quantum-based electronic and optoelectronic device applications. In FY 2002, ABCS substrate technology will accelerate recent breakthroughs in lateral epitaxial overgrowth and thin-fill delaminating and rebonding to develop a source for ABCS substrates with essentially any desired thermal or electronic property.



*******************

Article 540

The implications of this stressful, dynamic environment must be fully understood in order to improve decision-making processes, the training of decision-makers at all levels, and organizational patterns and procedures. Technology developments in the area of human dimension and psychological factors are needed to provide the capability to fully prepare all warfighters and support personnel cognitively and physically to conduct assigned missions and operations. The technology developments needed can be broken down into: training - including simulation based, virtual reality and augmented reality tools; decision making support, cognitive engineering to optimize human- information interfaces, and enhancement of performance under conditions of conflict.

Maneuver and self-protection are two enduring principles of military operations that remain true today. The Department remains committed to the development of smaller, lighter, and stronger materials and components that will enable enhanced maneuverability and self- protection by allowing these lighter and stronger systems. Technology developments in nanoscience and advanced materials are needed to provide revolutionary opportunities for the warfighter to develop totally new operational concepts and capabilities, based such developments. In a broad sense, the work in this area can be separated into two areas: nanotechnology, which enables very small mechanical systems; and advanced materials which are designed for specific applications, such as embedded computing, novel composities, and nonlinear, nonisotropic "smart" materials.

ENABLING CAPABILITIES

In addition to work in these areas, the Department continues to invest in underlying, longer term enabling capabilities that improve a myriad of systems. In each case, the enabling technology research leverages efforts going on in industry. We now describe three major long-term areas of focused R&D.


*******************

Article 541

The Beyond Silicon CMOS thrust is composed of five programs that will develop new capabilities from promising information processing components using both inorganic and organic substrates and components and systems leveraging quantum effects and chaos.

The first of the Beyond Silicon CMOS programs is Antimonide Based Compound Semiconductors (ABCS). Its goal is to develop low-power, high-frequency electronics circuits and infrared sources based on the antimonide family of compound semiconductors. Specific goals include circuits with over 104 devices per circuit operating at frequencies above 100 gigahertz and consuming less than one femtowatt (10-12 Joules per second) - a two-order-of-magnitude improvement over today's capabilities (i.e., 10 times faster, consuming one-tenth the power). Specific infrared source goals include operating above thermoelectric-cooled temperatures, with much greater efficiency for continuous wave, mid-wave infrared and single-mode operation in the long-wave infrared range. In FY 2001, this program is demonstrating non-silicon-based transistor technologies and nanostructured materials for quantum-based electronic and optoelectronic device applications. In FY 2002, ABCS substrate technology will accelerate recent breakthroughs in lateral epitaxial overgrowth and thin-film delaminating and rebonding to develop a source for ABCS substrates with essentially any desired thermal or electronic property.

Another program is Integrated Mixed Signal Analog/Digital and Electronic/Photonic Systems (NeoCAD) with a goal of developing and demonstrating innovative approaches to computer-aided design of mixed signal (analog/digital) and mixed electronic/photonic systems. The objective is to design and prototype the ultra- complex microsystems having the high degree of integration and complexity needed for military and commercial applications. In FY 2001, NeoCAD is developing fast algorithms for non-linear analysis of mixed signal systems (analog and photonic devices), and the program is extending algorithm methods to non-linear problems. In FY 2002, NeoCAD will develop model order reduction methods (for analog and photonic devices) to enable the creation of device behavioral models, and will develop and demonstrate top- down design capabilities for analog, mixed signal and mixed electronic/photonic systems that match the efficiency currently achieved with digital-only designs.



*******************

Article 542

So there are great benefits, but very difficult problems. This is in the area of large investments of time and money in order to get to the benefits that we see 10, 15 years down the road.

MEEHAN: I see.

ANDREWS: Representative Meehan, I would like to address that question, but let me reference you to a Netscape News article today, and it quotes Doug Brown, Interactive Week, June 25, 2001: "Army Goes to Battle With Wired Fatigues." This is a discussion of a new institute. It will be called Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies that we will be forming this year. When you see our budget finally, you will see the number in it.

But our thrust on that is to go after the material side of the problem. There are lot of efforts in nano-science and nanotechnology for devices and supercomputing approaches; different ways to get at it. But for the soldier point of view, it is what that soldier wears. And can we turn that material into something that provides them additional ballistic protection or give them a stealth capability? I have seen some results.

Today if you pick up a piece of material that weighs about 10 to 20 pounds per square foot, that will stop a 45-caliber. Can we put up a piece of paper that can do the same thing? That is what the potential of nanotechnology is all about.

And so, our thrust in this new institute at a university, but with partnership with the labs and with industry, will be the way to get at that for us.

Thank you.

HUNTER: Dr. Daniel?

DANIEL: Sir, I might inform you, we have just issued a grant to the National Research Council to help us think through this a little bit more. It will be about a 12-month activity.

Typically, nanotechnology and the application of nanotechnology starts with materials. My friends in materials research always remind me, without materials you don't have anything.

Where you go from there, I think we are still learning our way. A lot of people think first of structural materials. That may, in fact, be where a lot of this goes.

MEEHAN: Dr. Daniel, you might explain to our subcommittee what nanotechnology is, and for our listeners here, so they understand that.

DANIEL: Typically, we are talking on a scale of 10 to the minus nine meters. It is a very, very small linear measure. Very small. Not visible to the human eye. One is typically doing modeling of this in a first principles basis at the atomic or sub-atomic level and then building your models up from there.

Today's modern computer technology and particularly computer graphics in the materials research community is where we made the first breakthrough in this and starting convincing ourselves we can make some progress here.

But I am seeing propulsion also. I was talking to some folks at MIT last month. They are starting to think about some very exciting rocket propulsion and ultimately even turbine engine propulsion applications, as well for nanotechnology. Energetic materials, rocket materials; we are starting to see some completely new thinking there.

And we recently have formulated in our rocket lab out at Edwards, a new so-called polynitrogen molecule, an N5 molecule that has never been formulated before. We have only been able to make a few grams of it so far, and we blew up a small portion of the lab in the process of doing that, so we know it is an energetic material. But we are starting to see that come out of this technology as well.

So we see a lot coming. In about 12 months or so, we will have this report from the National Research Council, and I very much look forward to that. And we would be happy to share that with you, sir.

MEEHAN: Thank you, Doctor.

TETHER: I haven't had a chance to really review the nanotechnology program at DARPA, and there is a considerable amount of effort in the area. Mostly in things like electronics, beyond Sea Moss, going down to molecular electronics, using spin in electronics as a way for new memories. In meta-materials, actually one of my fellows, if he was here, he would tell you that we invented the first new material in 4,000 years. Very modest person, actually.

It is a material that is known as liquid metal. And it is a new material that is an invention. Right now they are using it in golf clubs.

HUNTER: Ken Calvert has a driver that...

(LAUGHTER)

TETHER: But to answer the question of what will hinder the development of nanotechnology, the transition, what we are doing right now is figuring out what we can do at the molecular level in coming up with devices, but eventually someone will have to produce it in quantity. And it is that step of going from making a device or two here or there to making a lot of them that will require a lot of research, a lot of new ways of tooling that will really hinder the transition of these devices. We need to know how to scale that up.

And right now, we are probably not doing anything more than thinking about scaling it up, because we are finding out all the neat things that you can do with it at this level, but that will have to come. And that will cost a lot of money to learn how to scale it up.




*******************

Article 543

We are pleased that results of previous studies conducted by the General Accounting Office and the Small Business Administration indicate that the NIH SBIR program has one of the highest rates of commercialization of all agency SBIR Programs. Other program goals are being met as well, including using SBIR to meet federal research and development (R&D) needs, increasing small business participation in federal R&D, and fostering participation by women, minority and disadvantaged persons in technological innovation. Even those projects that have not realized the goal of commercialization have generated information for the equally important purpose of contributing to the knowledge base of science through peer-reviewed publications.

The success of our STTR and SBIR Programs may be attributed to several factors, the most significant of which is flexibility in our administration of the Programs. What have made our Programs so appealing are the opportunities for firms to propose R&D initiatives with truly revolutionary outcomes rather than restrict their ideas to projects that can only be conducted under a prescribed amount of time and money. Our experience is that the conduct of certain types of biomedical and behavioral research, such as nanotechnology, clinically-related studies, vaccine development, and drug discovery, does not routinely lend itself to prescribed maximum time and dollar levels. These are exceptions, but such projects can be important steps in integrally involving small businesses in some of the most exciting, cutting-edge research.

A second example of administrative flexibility is that while we issue grant solicitations for projects on specific topics, we also encourage investigator-initiated, mission-related and commercially-viable research projects by small businesses. In addition, because of the similarities between the two grant solicitations, both in research topics and in application instructions, NIH now issues a single solicitation for SBIR and STTR applications for multiple receipt dates throughout the fiscal year. The advantages of multiple receipt dates are numerous. If an applicant misses a deadline, the researcher need wait only four months, not a year, for the next submission date of a Phase I (feasibility study) or Phase II (full R&D) application. Applicants may also submit up to two revised applications on any of the receipt dates. Also, a small business with multiple core technologies can use the multiple receipt dates to stagger submissions of applications rather than dedicating all of its resources to just a single project.



*******************

Article 544

IT Company president states, "The STTR Program gets much of the credit for this growth. Without the initial Phase I grant, we would not have developed the product that has brought us commercial success. The STTR Program benefited us by providing that seed capital to proof (ph) principle on a high-risk project, and a structure for collaboration with the University of Utah. NIH attributes its success of STTR and SBIR programs to several factors. The most significant of which is flexibility in our administration of the programs.

What has made them so appealing are the opportunities presented multiple times a year for firms to propose innovative R&D projects with truly revolutionary outcomes, rather than restrict their ideas to projects that can only be conducted under a prescribed time and money. Our experience is that the conduct of certain types of biomedical and behavioral research such as nanotechnology, clinically related studies, vaccine development and drug discovery does not routinely lend itself to prescribe maximum time and dollar levels. These are exceptions, but such projects can be important steps in integrally involving small businesses in some of the most exciting, cutting edge research.

Mr. Chairman and the committee members, having provided a brief overview of how NIH has utilized the STTR Program and benefited from it, I would now like to address two important areas related to these programs. Although the programs share a common thread, NIH believes that the STTR Program serves a very important function and one different than the SBIR Program. While SBIR is a vehicle for harnessing innovative ideas in the private sector. STTR taps a pool of technological innovations in our nation's research institutions.


*******************

Article 545

It is important to emphasize that research and education are pursued in an integrated way and that synergy between the programs in each of these accounts is fundamental to NSF's overall mission. The R&RA account supports activities that enable the U.S. to provide leadership and promote progress across the expanding frontiers of science and engineering. These activities support areas of inquiry that add to society's knowledge base and are critical to long-term U.S. economic strength, security, and quality of life, while simultaneously educating the workforce necessary to ensure continued discovery and innovation. Research activities spur new knowledge, development of new tools and approaches that open doors to understanding and solving problems. In other words, this investment allows researchers to do what they do best-ask questions and seek answers in our constantly changing world. Moreover, as students work alongside senior staff performing research activities, there is a natural integration of research and education as students acquire the skills necessary to perform world class research and become members of the next generation's workforce of scientists and engineers. To better enable the nation's research productivity, NSF investments in R&RA reflect the Foundation's three strategic goals: People, Ideas and Tools. In FY 2002, support is provided to both core disciplines, where activity at the cutting edge begins, and to research and education efforts related to broad, Foundation-wide priority areas in Biocomplexity in the Environment, Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering, and Learning for the 21st Century. To better enable our nation's research potential, NSF will continue to emphasize increasing the average annualized award size. NSF's portfolio, by the very nature of our statutory mission, is large and diverse, addressing all fields and activities of science and engineering. Our investments range from single investigator grants to small groups of investigators to large multi-purpose research centers. In implementing our budget we have two major integrative strategies: strengthening core activities, and emphasizing areas of intellectual and national priority. Supporting core activities keeps all the science and engineering disciplines strong. We fund those with the most creative and innovative ideas. These core activities also identify prospects for more intensive investment. NSF is committed to fostering connections between discoveries and their use in the service to society. A key strategy for accomplishing this is by supporting focused priority areas that enable NSF to center attention on national and global priorities. As noted above, there are four of these, each led by one of the directorate heads. Mr. Chairman, the NTSF takes our stewardship responsibilities very seriously as we are making decisions on how to best invest the taxpayers' dollars. With this in mind I would now like to explain our process for setting investment priorities. Priorities are determined through a process that generally starts from the bottom up. A key mechanism for identifying emerging opportunities is through the solicited and unsolicited proposals we receive during our merit-review process. Here the research and education areas of activity at the cutting edge. To put this community in context, we expect to receive 10,000 requests for funding in FY 2001 from researchers and educators nationwide. 

*******************

Article 546

Research activities spur new knowledge, development of new tools and approaches that open doors to understanding and solving problems. In other words, this investment allows researchers to do what they do best-ask questions and seek answers in our constantly changing world. Moreover, as students work alongside senior staff performing research activities, there is a natural integration of research and education as students acquire the skills necessary to perform world class research and become members of the next generation's workforce of scientists and engineers. To better enable the nation's research productivity, NSF investments in R&RA reflect the Foundation's three strategic goals: People, Ideas and Tools.

In FY 2002, support is provided to both core disciplines, where activity at the cutting edge begins, and to research and education efforts related to broad, Foundation-wide priority areas in Biocomplexity in the Environment, Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering, and Learning for the 21st Century. To better enable our nation's research potential, NSF will continue to emphasize increasing the average annualized award size.

NSF's portfolio, by the very nature of our statutory mission, is large and diverse, addressing all fields and activities of science and engineering. Our investments range from single investigator grants to small groups of investigators to large multi-purpose research centers.


*******************

Article 547

The recently issued report by the U. S. Commission on National Security for the 21st Century, led by Gary Hart and Warren Rudman, clearly states the importance and the current condition-of scientific research and education to America's world leadership. I quote: "Our systems of basic scientific research and education are in serious crisis... if we do not invest heavily and wisely in rebuilding these two core strengths, America will be incapable of maintaining its global position long into the 21st century." As this Committee recognizes, the National Science Foundation is a major contributor both to scientific research and science education. In fact, the Foundation accounts for 54 percent of Federal funding for basic research and general science. Federal investment in the basic sciences through the Foundation have produced New industries, such as E-commerce and biotechnology, New medical technologies, such as MRI and genetic mapping, New discoveries with great future promise in areas such as nanoscale science, cognitive neuroscience, and biocomplexity. In addition, the National Science Foundation supports innovative education programs from kindergarten through graduate school, educating the next generation of scientists and engineers and contributing to a more scientifically literate workforce and society. The link between our education system and the science and technology workforce is critical. Today we are losing many of our best and brightest science students to other fields. The science, mathematics, engineering, and technology education system needs to change, first by recognizing that the measure of success is the quality and quantity of the education people we produce--and not just the number of research papers published. Also, the pool of potential science and engineering students will increasingly reflect the growing diversity in American society.

*******************

Article 548

The Administration wants us to cut R&D at the NSF, the EPA, and the Departments of Energy, Agriculture, Commerce, and Interior. Other than health and defense, R&D funding for most of the other national missions would decline. There would be steep cuts to energy-related R&D (down 25.8 percent), commerce-related R&D. (down 29.1 percent), and agriculture R&D (down 9.5 percent). I support the government-wide 8 percent increase in nanotechnology. But, I am disappointed to see that the information technology initiative will lose ground to inflation, and the global change research program will be cut by 4.4 percent -- largely by scaling back the NASA earth science program. I realize it takes time for any new Administration to get its team selected and in place. But when you are dealing with matters like this R&D budget, an energy policy for the 21st century missile defense systems, emission standards for greenhouse gases, and arsenic in drinking water, I believe the President needs good science advice as he goes about developing policy in these and other important areas. I would hope the Administration would pick up the pace on filling this important position. This is the first time in the NSF's 50-year history that an Administration has requested Congress to cut NSF's' research budget below the previous year's level. The NSF budget proposes to reduce support for core programs in math and physical sciences, engineering, computer science, and the geosciences by close to $50 million below last year's level. I cannot believe this Administration really thinks this R&D budget is the right one for the country. I also want to hear about the new Partnership for Math and Science Education program. This is a new $200 million a year program -- but it comes only after cutting $110 million out of NSF's existing K- 12 science and math reform, teacher training programs, and undergraduate programs. What is the value-added by this new partnership program an does it outweigh cuts being proposed in other NSF K-12 math and science education programs? Nanoscience is an area that could literally launch a new industrial revolution, lead to dramatic improvements in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases, fundamentally change the way computers are built and operate, and radically alter the way we explore space. The 16 percent increase in NSF's nanotechnology budget represents some forward thinking, in my judgement. Finally, we have some management issues that need to be addressed. We have a number of large-scale research projects both under construction and waiting in the wings, still being planned. We have to be sure the Foundation is adequately prepared to manage and oversee these projects. The last thing we need is for NSF to get into the same management problems that now plague NASA on the space station. That kind of problem will not be helpful to those of us in the Senate working to build support for the Foundation. So I will be looking for your action plan for getting on top of these issues. I also think it is important that. we talk about the recent medical evacuations the Foundation just went through in the Antarctic. This is the third time in three years you have had to respond to a medical emergency with a high-risk evacuation flight. We have to know if enough is being done to adequately pre- screen the personnel going to the ice or should NSF be upgrading the medical facilities? We have to find a way to avoid these high- risk emergency medical flights before disaster strikes. There are a number of other issues on my mind - such as the reduction in support for undergraduate programs and the increase in graduate student stipends. Now I would like to turn to my colleague Senator Bond for his opening statement.

*******************

Article 549

The FY 2002 Budget emphasizes four priority areas - Biocomplexity in the Environment, Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering, and Learning for the 21st Century. All of these areas receive increased investment over last year's amounts. Biocomplexity and the Environment The FY 2002 budget request builds on past investments in our Biocomplexity in the Environment portfolio and increases funds by nearly 6 percent, to $58 million. Computational and information technologies, real time sensing techniques, and genomics are providing insight into the interactions among ecological, social, and physical earth systems. For example, recently investigators have been studying contaminant flux of the lower Mississippi River, dynamics of an invasive non-native species on the Pacific Coast, and marine mammal abundance in the western Arctic Ocean. Developing new research instruments and software that advance cross-disciplinary studies in the environment will continue to improve our understanding of the planet and its systems. Information Technology Research The Information Technology Research budget request expands fundamental research in another multidisciplinary area. Our requested $273 million investment, 5 percent over last year, allows us to explore ways of making large-scale networking, software, and systems more reliable, stable, and secure. This will permit diverse applications from tele-medicine, to interactive education, to the remote operation of experimental apparatus- -such as the telescope at the South Pole. Other research will improve our understanding of human- computer interactions and investigate the impact of IT on our society, on our economy, and on our educational system. Because the information technology sector has contributed significantly to recent U. S. economic growth, these investments remain a top priority. Nanoseale Science and Engineering In nanoscale science and engineering--colloquially known as nanotechnology--activities range from investigation of biologically based systems that exhibit novel properties to the study of nanoscale control of the structure and composition of new materials. Recognizing the importance of this emerging discipline, NSF is increasing its investment by 16.1 percent to $174 million in FY 2002. Fundamental research programs will investigate biosystems at the nanoscale--such as nanoscale sensors to detect cancer. Research will focus on system architectures, nanoscale processes in the environment--for instance, the trapping and release of contaminants--multi-scale modeling, and large-scale computer simulation of processes at the molecular or atomic level. Grand challenges include major long-term research objectives in nanoscale electronics, nano-based manufacturing, and nanostructured materials by design. Learning for the 21st Century Learning for the 21st Century addresses two interrelated challenges: understanding how we learn; and transferring that knowledge for use in schools, homes and other learning environments. Research, development, and testing of educational tools incorporating information technology will give us a much better understanding of how they can be used effectively in the classroom. Accordingly, the NSF request for these activities, $126 million, is a 3.3 percent increase over last year. A key component of this priority area is the Centers for Learning and Teaching program. Like the Math and Science Partnerships, these link K-12 and higher education. 

*******************

Article 550

Moreover, as students work alongside senior staff performing research activities, there is a natural integration of research and education as students acquire the skills necessary to perform world class research and become members of the next generation's workforce of scientists and engineers. To better enable the nation's research productivity, NSF investments in R&RA reflect the Foundation's three strategic goals: People, Ideas and Tools. In FY 2002, support is provided to both core disciplines, where activity at the cutting edge begins, and to research and education efforts related to broad, Foundation-wide priority areas in Biocomplexity in the Environment, Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering, and Learning for the 21st Century. To better enable our nation's research potential, NSF will continue to emphasize increasing the average annualized award size. NSF's portfolio, by the very nature of our statutory mission, is large and diverse, addressing all fields and activities of science and engineering. Our investments range from single investigator grants to small groups of investigators to large multi-purpose research centers. In implementing our budget we have two major integrative strategies: strengthening core activities, and emphasizing areas of intellectual and national priority. Supporting core activities keeps all the science and engineering disciplines strong. We fund those with the most creative and innovative ideas. These core activities also identify prospects for more intensive investment. NSF is committed to fostering connections between discoveries and their use in the service to society. A key strategy for accomplishing this is by supporting focused priority areas that enable NSF to center attention on national and global priorities. As noted above, there are four of these, each led by one of the directorate heads. Mr. Chairman, the NSF takes our stewardship responsibilities very seriously as we are making decisions on how to best invest the taxpayers' dollars. With this in mind I would now like to explain our process for setting investment priorities. Priorities are determined through a process that generally starts from the bottom up. 

*******************

Article 551

Research activities spur new knowledge, development of new tools and approaches that open doors to understanding and solving problems. In other words, this investment allows researchers to do what they do best-ask questions and seek answers in our constantly changing world. Moreover, as students work alongside senior staff performing research activities, there is a natural integration of research and education as students acquire the skills necessary to perform world class research and become members of the next generation's workforce of scientists and engineers. To better enable the nation's research productivity, NSF investments in R&RA reflect the Foundation's three strategic goals: People, Ideas and Tools.

In FY 2002, support is provided to both core disciplines, where activity at the cutting edge begins, and to research and education efforts related to broad, Foundation-wide priority areas in Biocomplexity in the Environment, Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering, and Learning for the 21st Century. To better enable our nation's research potential, NSF will continue to emphasize increasing the average annualized award size.

NSF's portfolio, by the very nature of our statutory mission, is large and diverse, addressing all fields and activities of science and engineering. Our investments range from single investigator grants to small groups of investigators to large multi-purpose research centers.

In implementing our budget we have two major integrative strategies: strengthening core activities, and emphasizing areas of intellectual and national priority.


*******************

Article 552

how industrial partnerships contribute to the doe lab missions Our laboratory's core competencies have been strengthened and its capabilities enhanced through interaction with industrial and academic researchers and engineers. This interaction permits us to cultivate relationships with key suppliers and contributors, explore technical frontiers with those who have a common interest, and maintain critical mission-related competencies at world-class levels during a period of reduced federal investment. Partnerships have directly benefited DOE missions as we have learned of new approaches and technologies and applied them to support our internal programs.

As you know, the mission responsibilities of Sandia National Laboratories and Los Alamos National Laboratory are centered on stewardship of the nation's nuclear weapons stockpile. This is a long-term obligation that requires sustained expertise in many technical disciplines. We must exercise, maintain, and continuously improve the technical competencies required for this work. Nuclear weapons stewardship requires advanced technology, some of which is specific to nuclear weapons, but much of which is common to the standard science and engineering disciplines. If we don't keep up with the advancing frontiers in electronics, materials science, computer science, nanotechnology, and so forth, we cannot perform our mission in the long term. Cooperative work with industry often helps support technologies that are strategic for the nuclear weapons program.

As a result of our cooperative research and development work with Sematech, we were able to revitalize our microelectronics fabrication facility through a major donation of equipment and research instrumentation from IBM valued at over $20 million. The facility became a dual-benefit project with industry and hosted partnership projects with U.S. microelectronics manufacturers and universities. Without the major support provided by IBM and other industrial partners through collaborative research programs, Sandia would not have a modern semiconductor fabrication facility today. And this facility is absolutely critical to our mission. We are the only government laboratory with both research and production capability supporting radiation-hardened microelectronic components for defense and space applications.


*******************

Article 553

TESTIMONY DESCRIPTORS:
   DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY; DEPARTMENT OF AIR FORCE; DEPARTMENT OF ARMY; DEPARTMENT OF NAVY
 
 
02-S201-2 TESTIMONY NO: 3     June 5, 2001 p. 104-118
 
WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   SHERWOOD, PETER (Director, Kansas Defense Experimental Program To Stimulate Competitive Research)
   GABRIEL, KAIGHAM J. (Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Robotics Institute, Carnegie Mellon University)
   KUPER, CYNTHIA A. (President, Versilant Nanotechnologies)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Importance of DOD/private sector S&T collaboration.
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   DOD R&D programs, issues review
 
TESTIMONY DESCRIPTORS:
   GOVERNMENT AND BUSINESS; RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GRANTS AND CONTRACTS; VERSILANT NANOTECHNOLOGIES


*******************

Article 554

-- Advanced Simulation: Modeling and simulation technology, such as an innovative partnership with the entertainment and game industries through the University of Southern California (the Institute for Creative Technologies or ICT) to accelerate the development of compelling immersive environments for training, mission rehearsal, and concept development. Another project, the Joint Virtual Battlespace (JVB) program, is an enabling technology for evaluating how FCS contributes to the total capability of the Objective Force, and how the Objective Force plays in a joint force. JVB, combined with virtual prototyping, also could provide an effective means for performing Operational Test and Evaluation without the need for numerous hardware test articles. This could result in significant time and financial savings in the Army Acquisition Process. -- Rotorcraft Technology: As the DoD lead for Rotorcraft Science and Technology, the Army is investing in the critical technologies that could provide heavy (up to 20 Tons) and semi-heavy (12 Tons), intra- theater lift to the Services, and armed unmanned platforms for combat reconnaissance. These technologies also could upgrade the current Army Aviation Fleet for heavier loads and reduced logistical burden.

-- Basic Research: Investment in knowledge and understanding of fundamental phenomena to enable future technological development; includes support for academic research through the Single Investigator Program, University Centers of Excellence, University Affiliated Research Centers (UARCs, such as ICT), and the Collaborative Technology Alliances (CTAs, formerly known as Federated Laboratories). A specific new thrust in this area is the establishment of a Nanoscience UARC focusing on the application of emerging nanotechnologies to enhance future warrior survivability.

-- Micro electro-mechanical System Inertial Measurement Unit (MEMS IMU): The Army has recently solicited 50%-cost share proposals to develop a low-cost, gun hardened and high accuracy MEMS IMU for gun- launched guided munitions, tactical missile and other military applications. The focus is to produce a MEMS IMU that will be bought by the DoD in bulk, thereby giving the economy of scale necessary to yield an inexpensive unit price. The goal is a military tactical-grade IMU that meets 90% of DoD munition and missile needs at a low- performance unit price, available from two, or more, commercial contractors.


*******************

Article 555

The interfacial chemistry has a dramatic effect on the mechanical properties of the composite, and I have studied this interfacial chemistry for many years using the techniques of surface science. This work has enabled us to tailor the surface chemistry of the fiber to optimize interaction with the matrix while reducing or eliminating degradation at the fiber matrix interface.

Many DoD funded projects provide opportunities for basic research of interest to DoD that leads to new developments that can lead to the establishment of local industrial and economic development. For example at Kansas State University, Dr. Kenneth J. Klabunde, University Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, has had a long period of continuous nationally competitive funding from DoD. This funding enabled him to develop a number of patents related to reactive nanoparticles - tiny particles with dimensions corresponding to an assembly of small numbers of atoms and remarkable chemical and physical properties. The particles have important military and civilian applications including air and water purification, environmental remediation and decontamination and industrial catalysis. Dr. Klabunde successfully developed in 1995 a company to market his inventions, Nanoscaie Materials Inc., which has been very successful in achieving DoD and other SBIR awards, together with public funding and now employs more than 20 people and is the first occupant of a new research park at Kansas State University. The company was established with assistance from the Mid-America Commercialization Corporation, a not-for-profit joint venture between Kansas State University, the State of Kansas (via the Kansas Technology Enterprise Corporation), the city of Manhattan and the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce. The focus of Nanoscaie Materials Inc. has been the use of these nanoparticles for chemical and biological defense applications, destructively absorbing selected chemical a no biological warfare agents, rendering them harmless. Pilot plant production of these nanomaterials has been operational since last year, and has been found effective in the destruction of chemical warfare agents mimics and biological warfare agent mimics (e.g. anthrax simulants, escherichia coli, erwinia herbicola and human virus simulants).

Kansas has responded to concerns about emerging threats and capabilities with new initiatives. A recent initiative from Kansas State University involves a proposed nonlethal environmental evaluation and remediation (NEER) program that uses existing assets in a coordinated manner to form a center (NEERC) to address this challenge. A request for DoD support has been made this year in four areas: nanoparticle responses to chemical/biological threats; a request to develop and manage a Marine Corps urban operations environmental laboratory at NEERC; a request for support of a nanoparticles program for neutralization of facility threats and a smart mortar development and testing program.

I would also like to tell you something about the DEPSCoR program. Based on the positive results of the NSF program, Congress created EPSCOR programs in six additional federal agencies. One of these is the Defense Department. The individual agency EPSCOR programs, much in the same way as the NSF EPSCOR, help researchers and institutions in participating states to improve the quality of their research so they can compete for non-EPSCoR research funds. The federal-wide EPSCOR effort funds only merit-based, peer reviewed programs that work to enhance the competitiveness of research institutions and increase the probability of long-term growth of competitive funding.


*******************

Article 556

Senator Roberts, and members of the subcommittee, I greatly appreciate the opportunity to speak with you today regarding the present status and future direction of nanotechnology.

If I were asked, to testify before you just a few years ago I would have used words like "imagine" and "potential". Today I use the words "will" and "can". I am here to tell you where nanotechnology is and where it is going. 

Nanotechnology is the technology of science on the nano scale, the size scale of atoms and molecules, one billionth of one meter. It is the most powerful form of engineering we know of and thus, brings with it the most innovative and revolutionary materials that exist in the universe. Nanotechnology holds the key to our future, a future that began over the last decade in university laboratories, across our country and the world, where scientists embarked on studies of a new form of carbon that is 100 time stronger than steel and weighs 1/6 as much, wires made out single molecules and pathways to engineer devices half the size of the diameter of a human hair. The future of these findings will lead to desk top computers the size of credit cards, ... vehicles for land and air that self-heal and think, ... and multifunctional materials., Such an example of a multi-functional device that will greatly benefit soldier land warfare is a jacket worn by a soldier that weighs as much as a cotton shirt, yet is a ballistic shield, portable power supply, and a medicine cabinet of anti-biological warfare agents, holding the vaccines in tiny capsules ready to release them when its sensors detect their presence in the air. In this future we will use carbon nanotubes to deliver drugs to infected cells and conversely use the bacteria that infects cells to build computers. The use of bacteria for molecular circuitry has already been demonstrated.

I am fortunate to have worked with these materials first-hand and am humbled to say that I have been trained by some of the world leaders in this field. I began my scientific endeavors in the laboratory at the age of 15, working on cures for breast cancer. I obtained my doctorate in Chemistry and never dreamed I would be on an adventure such as this one; having the opportunity to work with Noble laureates and our space agency to develop these materials, to have a glimpse into our future.

Nanotechnology will build a new class of air and spacecraft using materials with the highest strength-to-weight ratio ever seen. These materials are called carbon nanotubes. To visualize a carbon nanotube, visualize a sheet of chicken wire and place a carbon atom in every vertice in the chicken wire. Then roll up the sheet so that is closes upon it self at the edges seamlessly. You have just formed a long tube made solely of carbon atoms. Now, if you will, envision a soccer ball. Place a carbon atom in every venice on the stitching of the soccer ball. This is a carbon 60 molecule, or Bucky ball, named after the architect Buckminster Fuller.

Take this soccer ball and cut it in half. Use each half to cap the ends of the long tube. This is a single-wall carbon nanotube. Its diameter is one billionth of meter and its length is a micron, one millionth of one meter. These are single molecules and they are with out defect. Their unique structure gives them strengths 100 times greater than steel and weight 1/6 of steel, 1/2 as much as carbon fibers used today. High strength and low weight is just the beginning of the remarkable properties of these materials. They also conduct electricity equal to copper without the loss of heat. Carbon nanotubes have extremely high thermal conductivities as well and are unreactive in most environments. Each desired physical property is obtained simply by rotating the molecule from 0 to 90 degrees. With carbon nanotubes we can build maritime vehicles that evade corrosion and detection by the enemy. We can build airplanes with warping wings that respond automatically to environmental conditions and that are lighter and more fuel-efficient. We can build computer circuits orders of magnitude smaller than today's standards. We can build our future, a future that looks as perfect as the nature that surrounds us.

I look toward the government for strategic investment in nanotechnology similar to its investments during the 1950's, which led to micro technology, micro fabrication and computer technology. This was our past. It has been fruitful and formidable, but it has run its course. Technology of the past cannot answer our needs for today and the future. We need lighter more fuel-efficient vehicles. We need better forms of power storage. We need orders of magnitude increase in data storage capabilities. We need our soldiers better protected on the battlefield. The lead-time for a science to become a technology is 10-15 years. We have just passed a decade in nanotechnology. Now is a critical time.

The future is today.The question is no longer how. The question is when. We must take nanotechnology out of the laboratories and into the market. We must move from characterization to fabrication. We must build. We must invest.

Once it was thought that our largest barrier to the technology of the future was the technology itself, not having microscopes powerful enough to see individual atoms and molecules, not understanding the physics and chemistry at this size scale. The scientific community has overcome these obstacles and surpassed them. Today without question the largest barrier to taking the next step is economic. The materials of nanotechnology are ready to be fabricated into useful forms so that the military and society can realize their extraordinary benefits. We are ready to break away from basic science and become an applied industry. This is evidenced by the number of new nanotechnology start up companies growing everyday.

Now I will use the word "potential". These small businesses have the potential to supply the military with materiel needed to build the next generation of defense products. These businesses need an infrastructure to survive. They need investment and goals. The defense department will greatly benefit by forming strategic partnerships with the nanotechnology private sector. Department of defense appropriations can bring speed to market so that the military can reap benefits.

Senator Santorum has shown great vision in this area, realizing that nanotechnology will help to make unmanned air and land vehicles a reality and greatly improve ballistic shielding. It is time to bring that vision to fruition. I urge the Senate to make a small investment, which promises to reap enormous rewards.


*******************

Article 557

The Beyond Silicon CMOS thrust is starting in FY 2001. The initiative is aimed at maintaining the phenomenal progress in microelectronics innovation that has served military systems designers so well over the last 30 years. Taking advantage of advanced materials deposition and processing techniques that enable increasing control over material and device structures down to nanoscale dimensions, the Beyond Silicon MOS initiative will enable low-cost-to-manufacture, reliable, fast, and secure information systems critical to meet future military needs. Because the transistors can be made so small, we can make chips with a very large number of transistors per chip, which allows greater fault tolerance and high speed (future microprocessors based on these technologies will run at speeds 10 to 100 times faster than today's best gigahertz-level clock rates). And, with the resulting greater computational power, we will be able to run more complex algorithms to improve security. In the case of the ultimate computers that exploit quantum mechanical effects, we will be able to make use of physical phenomena not available in today's electronic devices to achieve computational capabilities unavailable by traditional techniques.

With a goal to develop new device capabilities, DARPA is exploring options such as non-silicon-based semiconducting materials, including organic and amorphous materials. Components and systems leveraging quantum effects, and innovative approaches to computing designs incorporating these components, will allow lowcost, seamless, "pervasive computing" (making generally available the kind of computing power normally associated with large computing facilities); ultra-fast computing; and sensing and actuation devices. Much as today's desktop computers have the power of the super-computers of a decade or so ago, these chip-scale computers will enable super- computer-like capabilities in portable machines. The military impact could be, for example, to enable a computationally intense synthetic aperture radar capability on a small unmanned air vehicle.

The Beyond Silicon CMOS thrust is composed of five programs that will develop new capabilities from promising information processing components using both inorganic and organic substrates and components and systems leveraging quantum effects and chaos.

The first of the Beyond Silicon CMOS programs is Antimonide Based Compound Semiconductors (ABCS). Its goal is to develop low-power, high-frequency electronics circuits and infrared sources based on the antimonide family of compound semiconductors. Specific goals include circuits with over 104 devices per circuit operating at frequencies above 100 gigahertz and consuming less than one femtowatt (10 X 10¬12 Joules per second) - a two-order-ofmagnitude improvement over today's capabilities (i.e., 10 times faster, consuming one-tenth the power). Specific infrared source goals include operating above thermoelectric- cooled temperatures, with much greater efficiency for continuous wave, mid-wave infrared and single-mode operation in the long-wave infrared range. In FY 2001, this program is demonstrating non-silicon-based transistor technologies and nanostructured materials for quantum-based electronic and optoelectronic device applications. In FY 2002, ABCS substrate technology will accelerate recent breakthroughs in lateral epitaxial overgrowth and thin-film delaminating and rebonding to develop a source for ABCS substrates with essentially any desired thermal or electronic property.


*******************

Article 558

The future military force will be involved in rapid and dispersed operations requiting individuals to work as a cohesive team, yet be capable of operating independently. The implications of this stressful, dynamic environment must be fully understood in order to improve decision-making processes, the training of decision-makers at all levels, and organizational patterns and procedures. Technology developments in the area of human dimension and psychological factors are needed to provide the capability to fully prepare all warfighters and support personnel cognitively and physically to conduct assigned missions and operations. The technology developments needed can be broken down into: training - including simulation based, virtual reality and augmented reality decision making support, cognitive engineering to optimize human-information interfaces, and enhancement of performance under conditions of conflict.

Maneuver and self-protection are two enduring principles of military operations that remain true today. The Department remains committed to the development of smaller, lighter, and stronger materials and components that will enable enhanced maneuverability and self- protection by allowing these lighter and stronger systems. Technology developments in nanoscience and advanced materials are needed to provide revolutionary opportunities for the warfighter to develop totally new operational concepts and capabilities, based such developments. In a broad sense, the work in this area can be separated into two areas: nanotechnology, which enables very small mechanical systems; and advanced materials which are designed for specific applications, such as embedded computing, novel composities, and nonlinear, nonisotropic "smart" materials.

ENABLING CAPABILITIES

In addition to work in these areas, the Department continues to invest in longer term enabling capabilities that improve a myriad of systems. In each case, the enabling technology research leverages efforts going on in industry. We now describe three major long-term areas of focused R&D.


*******************

Article 559

- Rotorcraft Technology: As the DoD lead for Rotorcraft Science and Technology, the Army is investing in the critical technologies that could provide heavy (up to 20 Tons) and semi- heavy (12 Tons), intra-theater lift to the Services, and armed unmanned platforms for combat reconnaissance. These technologies also could upgrade the current Army Aviation Fleet for heavier loads and reduced logistical burden. - Basic Research: Investment in knowledge and understanding of fundamental phenomena to enable future technological development; includes support for academic research through the Single Investigator Program, University Centers of Excellence, University Affiliated Research Centers (UARCs, such as ICT), and the Collaborative Technology Alliances (CTAs, formerly known as Federated Laboratories). A specific new thrust in this area is the establishment of a Nanoscience UARC focusing on the- application of emerging nanotechnologies to enhance future warrior survivability. - Micro electro-mechanical System Inertial Measurement Unit (MEMS IMU): The Army has recently solicited 50%-cost share proposals to develop a low-cost, gun hardened and high accuracy MEMS IMU for gun-launched guided munitions, tactical missile and other military applications. The focus is to produce a MEMS IMU that will be bought by the DoD in bulk, thereby diving the economy of scale necessary to yield an inexpensive unit price. The goal is a military tactical-grade IMU that meets 90% of DoD munition and missile needs at a low-performance unit price, available from two, or more, commercial contractors. - High Energy Lasers: The Army S&T program continues to investigate high energy solid state laser technology options for potential application on the tactical battlefield. In this effort, we are seeking to identify the most promising solutions to ensure speed of light engagement and laser weapon lethality throughout the spectrum of battlefield environments of weather, dust and obscurants. CONCLUSION Since the Army Vision was announced in October 1999, the Army S&T program has been re-shaped and focused to speed the development of those critical technologies essential to Transform the Army into the Objective Force. The Army S&T community has accepted the challenges and has energized all of its resources to meet them. We are accelerating the pace of transformation of The Army!


*******************

Article 560

Many DoD funded projects provide opportunities for basic research of interest to DoD that leads to new developments that can lead to the establishment of local industrial and economic development. For example at Kansas State University, Dr. Kenneth J. Klabunde, University Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, has had a long period of continuous nationally competitive funding from DoD. This funding enabled him to develop a number of patients related to reactive nanoparticles - tiny particles with dimensions corresponding to an assembly of small numbers of atoms and remarkable chemical and physical properties. The particles have important military and civilian applications including air and water purification, environmental remediation and decontamination and industrial catalysis. Dr. Klabunde successfully developed in 1995 a company to market his inventions, Nanoscale Materials Inc., which has been very successful in achieving DoD and other SBIR awards, together with public funding and now employs more than 20 people and is the first occupant of a new research park at Kansas State University. The company was established with assistance from the Mid-America Commercialization Corporation, a not- for-profit joint venture between Kansas State University, the State of Kansas (via the Kansas Technology Enterprise Corporation), the city of Manhattan and the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce. The focus of Nanoscale Materials Inc. has been the use of these nanoparticles for chemical and biological defense applications, destructively absorbing selected chemical and biological warfare agents, rendering them harmless. Pilot plant production of these ha'nomaterials has been operational since last year, and has been found effective in the destruction of chemical warfare agents mimics and biological warfare agent mimics (e.g. anthrax simulants, escherichia coli, erwinia herbicola and human virus simulants). Kansas has responded to concerns about emerging threats and capabilities with new initiatives. A recent initiative from Kansas State University involves a proposed nonlethal environmental evaluation and remediation (NEER) program that uses existing assets in a coordinated manner to form a center (NEERC) to address this challenge. A request for DoD support has been made this year in four areas: nanoparticle responses to chemical/biological tqr6ts; a request to develop and manage a Marine Corps urban operations environmental laboratory at NEERC; a request for support of a nanoparticles program for neutralization of facility threats and a smart mortar development and testing program. I would also like to tell you something about the DEPSCoR program. Based on the positive results of the NSF program, Congress created EPSCoR programs in six additional federal agencies. One of these is the Defense Department. The individual agency EPSCoR programs, much in the same way as the NSF EPSCoR, help researchers and institutions in participating states to improve the quality of their research so they can compete for non- EPSCoR research funds. The federal-wide EPSCoR effort funds only merit-based, peer reviewed programs that work to enhance the competitiveness of research institutions and increase the probability of long-term growth of competitive funding. EPSCoR relies heavily on state involvement and participation, including non-federal matching funds. Due to the federal/state partnership upon which EPSCoR relies, and the opportunity that the program provides to allow the states to develop a strategic focus that allows them to enhance their strengths in research, EPSCoR is often considered a model program, and is a wise use of taxpayer funds. 

*******************

Article 561

Technology developments in the area of human dimension and psychlogical factors are needed to provide the capability to fully prepare all warfighters and support personnel cognitively and physically to conduct assigned missions and operations. The technology developments needed can be broken down into: training - including simulation based, virtual reality and augmented reality tools; decision making support, cognitive engineering to optimize human information interfaces, and enhancement of performance under conditions of conflict. Maneuver and self-protection are two enduring principles of military operations that remain true today. The Department remains committed to the development of smaller, lighter, and stronger materials and components that will enable enhanced maneuverability and self-protection by allowing these lighter and stronger systems. Technology developments in nanoscience and advanced materials are needed to provide revolutionary opportunities for the warfighter to develop totally new operational concepts and capabilities, based such developments. In a broad sense, the work in this area can be separated into two areas: nanotechnology, which enables very small mechanical systems; and advanced materials which are designed for specific applications, such as embedded computing, novel composities, and nonlinear, nonisotropic "smart" materials. ENABLING CAPABILITIES In addition to work in these areas, the Department continues to invest in longer term enabling capabilities that improve a myriad of systems. In each case, the enabling technology research leverages efforts going on in industry. We now describe three major long-term areas of focused R&D. Propulsion Military fuel consumption for aircraft, ships, ground vehicles and facilities makes the DoD the single largest consumer of petroleum in the U.S. Existing and emerging technologies are now available at various stages of maturity that could improve warfighting effectiveness through fuel efficiency. These technologies are applicable to the turbofan/turbojet, turboprop/turboshaft, and expendable engine applications, as well rocket propulsion programs. In addition, the rocket propulsion program addresses technologies to support space launch and orbit transfer propulsion (both liquid and solid), spacecraft propulsion (chermical, electrical, and solar), strategic systems sustainment (post-boost control systems, missile propulsion and life issues), and tactical propulsion (solids and hybrids).

*******************

Article 562

The Beyond Silicon CMOS thrust is starting in FY 2001. The initiative is aimed at maintaining the phenomenal progress in microelectronics innovation that has served military systems designers so well over the last 30 years. Taking advantage of advanced materials deposition and processing techniques that enable increasing control over material and device structures down to nanoscale dimensions, the Beyond Silicon MOS initiative will enable low- cost-to-manufacture, reliable, fast, and secure information systems critical to meet future military needs. Because the transistors can be made so small, we can make chips with a very large number of transistors per chip, which allows greater fault tolerance and high speed (future microprocessors based on these technologies will run at speeds 10 to 100 times faster than today's best gigahertz-level clock rates). And, with the resulting greater computational power, we will be able to run more complex algorithms to improve security. In the case of the ultimate computers that exploit quantum mechanical effects, we will be able to make use of physical phenomena not available in today's electronic devices to achieve computational capabilities unavailable by traditional techniques. With a goal to develop new device capabilities, DARPA is exploring options such as non-silicon-based semiconducting materials, including organic and amorphous materials. Components and systems leveraging quantum effects, and innovative approaches to computing designs incorporating these components, will allow low- cost, seamless, "pervasive computing" (making generally available the kind of computing power normally associated with large computing facilities); ultra-fast computing; and sensing and actuation devices. Much as today's desktop computers have the power of the super-computers of a decade or so ago, these chip- scale computers will enable super-computer-like capabilities in portable machines. The military impact could be, for example, to enable a computationally intense synthetic aperture radar capability on a small unmanned air vehicle. The Beyond Silicon CMOS thrust is composed of five programs that will develop new capabilities from promising information processing components using both inorganic and organic substrates and components and systems leveraging quantum effects and chaos. The first of the Beyond Silicon CMOS programs is Antimonide Based Compound Semiconductors (ABCS). Its goal is to develop low-power, high-frequency electronics circuits and infrared sources based on the antimonide family of compound semiconductors. Specific goals include circuits with over 104 devices per circuit operating at frequencies above I 00 gigahertz and consuming less than one ferntowatt (I 0- 1 2 Joules per second) - a two-order-of- magnitude improvement over today's capabilities (i.e., 10 times faster, consuming one-tenth the power). Specific infrared source goals include operating above thermoelectric-cooled temperatures, with much greater efficiency for continuous wave, mid-kave infrared and single-mode operation in the long-wave infrared range. In FY 2001, this program is demonstrating non-silicon- based transistor technologies and nanostructured materials for quantum-based electronic and optoelectronic device applications. In FY 2002, ABCS substrate technology will accelerate recent breakthroughs in lateral epitaxial overgrowth and thin-film delaminating and rebonding to develop a source for ABCS substrates with essentially any desired thermal or electronic property. 

*******************

Article 563

June 4, 2001 NANOTECHNOLOGY Prepared Written Statement and Oral Testimony Submitted by Dr. Cynthia Kuper Versilant Nanotechnologies, Senator Roberts, and members of the subcommittee, I greatly appreciate the opportunity to speak with you today regarding the present status and future direction of nanotechnology. If I were asked to testify before you just a few years ago I would have used words like "imagine" and "potential". Today I use the words "will" and "can". I am here to tell you where nanotechnology is and where it is going. Nanotechnology is the technology of science on the nano scale, the size scale of atoms and molecules, one billionth of one meter. It is the most powerful form of engineering we know of and thus, brings with it the most innovative and revolutionary materials that exist in the universe. Nanotechnology holds the key to our future, a future that began over the last decade in university laboratories, across our country and the world, where scientists embarked on studies of a new form of carbon that is I 00 time stronger than steel and weighs 1/6 as much, wires made out single molecules and pathways to engineer devices half the size of the diameter of a human hair. The future of these findings will lead to desk top computers the size of credit cards.......... vehicles for land and air that self-heal and think...... and multi- functional materials. Such an example of a multi-functional device that will greatly benefit soldier land warfare is a jacket worn by a soldier that weighs as much as a cotton shirt, yet is a ballistic shield, portable power supply, and a medicine cabinet of anti- biological warfare agents, holding the vaccines in tiny capsules ready to release them when its sensors detect their presence in the air. In this future we will use carbon nanotubes to deliver drugs to infected cells and conversely use the bacteria that infects cells to build computers. The use of bacteria for molecular circuitry has already been demonstrated. I am fortunate to have worked with these materials first-hand and am humbled to say that I have been trained by some of the world leaders in this field. I began my scientific endeavors in the laboratory at the age of 15, working on cures for breast cancer. I obtained my doctorate in Chemistry and never dreamed I would be on an adventure such as this one; having the opportunity to work,%4ith Noble laureates and our space agency to develop these materials, to have a glimpse into our future. Nanotechnology will build a new class of air and spacecraft using materials with the highest strength-to-weight ratio ever seen. These materials are called carbon nanotubes. To visualize a carbon nanotube, visualize a sheet of chicken wire and place a carbon atom in every vertice in the chicken wire. Then roll up the sheet so that is closes upon it self at the edges seamlessly. You have just formed a long tube made solely of carbon atoms. Now, if you will, envision a soccer ball. Place a carbon atom in every vertice on the stitching of the soccer ball. This is a carbon 60 molecule, or Bucky ball, named after the architect Buckminster Fuller. Take this soccer ball and cut it in half Use each half to cap the ends of the long tube. This is a single-wall carbon nanotube. Its diameter is one billionth of meter and its length is a micron, one millionth of one meter. These are single molecules and they are with out defect. Their unique structure gives them strengths 100 times greater than steel and weight 1/6 of steel, 1/2 as much as carbon fibers used today. High strength and low weight is just the beginning of the remarkable properties of these materials. They also conduct electricity equal to copper without the loss of heat. Carbon nanotubes have extremely high thermal conductivities as well and are unreactive in most environments. Each desired physical property is obtained simply by rotating the molecule from 0 to 90 degrees. With carbon nanotubes we can build maritime vehicles that evade corrosion and detection by the enemy. We can build airplanes with warping wings that respond automatically to environmental conditions and that are lighter and more fuel- efficient. We can build computer circuits orders of magnitude smaller than today's standards. We can build our future, a future that looks as perfect as the nature that surrounds us. I look toward the government for strategic investment in nanotechnology similar to its investments during the 1950's, which led to micro technology, micro fabrication and computer technology. This was our past. It has been fruitful and formidable, but it has run its course. Technology of the past cannot answer our needs for today and the future. We need lighter more fuel-efficient vehicles. We need better forms of power storage. We need orders of magnitude increase in data storage capabilities. We need our soldiers better protected on the battlefield. The lead-time for a science to become a technology is 10- 1 5 years. We have just passed a decade in nanotechnology. Now is a critical time. The future is today. The question is no longer how. The question is when. We must take nanotechnology out of the laboratories and into the market. We must move from characterization to fabrication. We must build. We must invest. Once it was thought that our largest barrier to the technology of the future was the technology itself, not having microscopes powerful enough to see individual atoms and molecules, not understanding the physics and chemistry at this size scale. The scientific community has overcome these obstacles and surpassed them. Today without question the largest barrier to taking the next step is economic. The materials of nanotechnology are ready to be fabricated into useful forms so that the military and society can realize their extraordinary benefits. We are ready to break away from basic science and become an applied industry. This is evidenced by the number of new nanotechnology start up companies growing everyday. Now I will use the word "potential". These small businesses have the potential to supply the military with materiel needed to build the next generation of defense products. These businesses need an infrastructure to survive. They need investment and goals. The defense department will greatly benefit by forming strategic partnerships with the nanotechnology private sector. Department of defense appropriations can bring speed to market so that the military can reap benefits. Senator Santorum has shown great vision in this area, realizing that nanotechnology will help to make unmanned air and land vehicles a reality and greatly improve ballistic shielding. It is time to bring that vision to fruition. I urge the Senate to make a small investment, which promises to reap enormous rewards.


*******************

Article 564

Directed energy is an important future war-winning capability. Unmanned systems are important, both the unmanned reconnaissance and unmanned combat vehicles. Nano- and micro-technologies are something that we could continue to spend money on. And ballistic and cruise missile defense are very important issues for the future. These are the areas that I would focus on with the additional resources.

SANTORUM: I'd like to talk a little about nano and MEMS, if you will. My understanding is that your nanotechnology initiative is called the Defense University Research Initiative on nanotechnology. Can you explain that and what's going on in that program?

ETTER: Yes, this is a program that we work on with a number of other agencies. I think the area of nano-science and nanotechnology is one that people recognize as a very critical one. And so over the last few years, there have been interagency groups that have worked together to look at this area and to also divide up areas of emphasis so that we can get the most out of the dollars we're putting into this.

So for example, NSF is one of the key players in it, DOD is also a key player, and the program you described is the one that we have used to try to focus our efforts in this area. But it's looking at nano-science and nanotechnology particularly with a look at applications that we think will be important to DOD. For example, one of these is new energetics, new materials.

We're also very interested in things that may allow us to come up with new power sources that would allow us to have smaller, lighter weight systems. And we think nano-science is going to be another part of that. But this program is one that's focused entirely on universities and it's built around a multi-disciplinary university research initiative, so it's encouraging collaborative efforts among universities. We think this is a very important program and have planned in that to make sure that we have continuing support not only for the programs that are currently being funded, for bringing in new programs each year.


*******************

Article 565

Twenty-five DEPSCoR projects have been funded in North Dakota since 1994. The projects were developed by North Dakota science and engineering researchers in collaboration with DoD program officers to address topics critical to defense readiness and capabilities. The program is a true partnership between DoD, the State of North Dakota, and the universities involved. The research topics cover a wide spectrum of issues important to the DoD mission. We have DoD sponsored efforts in logistics, database development, encryption science, and a variety of materials-based programs. For example, one of my projects has led to a very safe and low temperature method of production of semiconductor materials such as gallium arsenide, tin sulfide, and tin selenide in a new and useful form, quantum dots, i.e., less than one ten billionth of a meter. Semiconductors in this form open the door to a broad range of useful properties. We shall be seeing these "nanoniaterials" in all phases of our lives where electronic equipment is important: from very sensitive optical detectors to micro lasers to vanishingly small transmitters. In North Dakota, we are now imbedding these incredibly small particles in polymers to develop an entirely new class of polymeric materials, nanocomposites. The sky is the limit here. One could say that the smaller the particle, the larger the potential for scientific and technical advances. Mr. Chairman, this is a very exciting new area of scientific research. It can really change the way our world will be in the future and it will provide our military with significant new war- fighting capabilities for the 21" Century. The Department of Defense is at the forefront of this research and DEPSCoR supported researchers are playing an important role in maintaining our Nation's leadership in this vital area. 

*******************

Article 566

IDENTIFYING PRODUCTIVE NEW RESEARCH DIRECTIONS The creation of programs on the cutting edge of research and innovation will pose complex scientific challenges and require multidisciplinary strategies. A critical component of the Institute's inaugural year will be the formulation of a strategic plan for research in biomedical imaging and bioengineering. This activity will be undertaken in cooperation with the NIBIB Advisory Council and with broad representation from the research community. An outstanding opportunity exists to recruit scientists, engineers and physicians to new areas of biomedical research through the research programs to be developed by NIBIB. NIH has provided important groundwork that is of invaluable aid to NIBIB as it formulates an emerging research agenda. Key areas of future research in biomedical imaging and bioengineering have been highlighted by four symposia sponsored by NIH in the last three and a half years. At these meetings, the country's leading engineers, scientists, and physician-scientists have addressed areas of opportunity in bioengineering, biomedical imaging, nanotechnology, and reparative medicine or tissue engineering. Since one of NIH's highest priorities is the funding of medical research through research project grants, NIBIB will emphasize this mechanism to promote fundamental discoveries, design and development, and translation of technological capabilities in biomedical imaging and bioengineering, enabled by relevant areas of information science, physics, chemistry, mathematics, materials science, and computer sciences. The research supported by NIBIB will be multidisciplinary in nature and strongly synergistic with NIH's other research Institutes and Centers. NIBIB will expand the principles embodied in NIH's development of the Bioengineering Research Partnerships and Bioengineering Research Grants - - that creation, development, and implementation of technology are worthy goals. DEVELOPING A NEW GENERATION OF RESEARCHERS NIBIB will meet the challenge of training a new generation of investigators with a vision transcending narrow disciplines. 

*******************

Article 567

Every federal dollar is matched between 50 cents to more than a dollar by state funding, and, typically, every dollar provided to EPSCOR states' projects lead to $4 of nationally competitive federal funding. The defense EPSCOR program contributes to the states' goals of developing and enhancing their research capabilities. Research is funded only if it is in areas important to national defense.

In North Dakota, 25 EPSCOR projects in science and engineering have been funded since 1994. It's a true partnership between DOD, the state of North Dakota, and the universities involved.

We have DOD sponsored projects in logistics, database development, encryption science, and a variety of materials based programs that include anti-corrosion studies for military aircraft and the development of semiconductor materials composed of quantum dots, particles less than one-ten billionth of a meter. We will embed these nano-particles in polymers to make a new class of materials called nano-composites.

The sky is the limit here. One could say that the smaller the particle, the larger the potential for scientific and technical advances.

Mr. Chairman, this is a very exciting new area of research, and it will provide our military with new war fighting capabilities for the 21st Century. EPSCOR is a wise and worthwhile investment for scarce public resources.

The coalition recognizes the very tight fiscal constraints this subcommittee faces in the new era of a balanced federal budget. But given the impact the EPSCOR program is having in our states, we respectfully request that you provide $25 million for the defense EPSCOR program for FY2002.


*******************

Article 568


In fact, the Foundation accounts for 54 percent of Federal funding for basic research and general science. Federal investment in the basic sciences through the Foundation have produced - New industries, such as E-commerce and biotechnology, - New medical technologies, such as MRI and genetic mapping, - New discoveries with great future promise, such as nanoscale science, cognitive neuroscience, and biocomplexity. In addition, the National Science Foundation supports innovative education programs from kindergarten through graduate school, educating the next generation of scientists and engineers. Clearly, there is an important link between Federal investment in basic research through the National Science Foundation, the vitality of our K-12 and higher education systems in math and science, the talent available for the workforce, and the successful achievement of national goals. (b) Allocation of Federal Resources Even if Federal investment were to increase substantially, the difficult issue of how to allocate the funds would remain. For the past two years, at the request of national policy makers, the Board has grappled with how the Federal government should set priorities and allocate its approximately $84 billion annual budget for defense and non-defense research and development. That question is critically important, given the growing opportunities for discovery and the inevitable limits on Federal spending. 

*******************

Article 569

Such technological innovations were identified in a report by a working group of the National Commission on the Future of DNA Evidence as important in enhancing the value of DNA in solving and preventing crime. Some of the program s $5 million annual budget is used to develop technologies and techniques that will immediately improve the use of DNA in today s laboratories. One such improvement allows laboratories to predict instrumentation failures before they occur, thus reducing arbitrary laboratory shut-downs and the risk of loss of crucial evidence. Another example is the development of a mitochondrial DNA screening method that allows labs to examine old, degraded, or very small evidence samples without resorting to the expensive and technically demanding DNA sequencing methods needed beyond the screening stage. The program also supports future improvements such as high throughput, low cost mass spectrometry instrumentation and the exploitation of nanotechnology for forensic applications. We expect the first forensic DNA chip with all 13 of the required genetic markers for data basing to be in the hands of the practitioners for evaluation by October 2001. This chip, under development at MIT s Whitehead Institute of Technology, uses standard, commercially available reagents with a capillary electrophoresis format, but instead of the several hours currently required to analyze a sample, the chip can perform the same task and produce a reliable result in under 10 minutes. This type of instrumentation can save many thousands of man-years of productivity when it is implemented in our nation s labs and may eventually offer new ways to use DNA earlier in investigations. Increases in productivity such as these are a crucial need in forensic laboratories today. The forensic workforce is so severely constrained that it is simply not possible for them to work harder, so we must find ways to help them to work smarter. This is also the goal of NIJ s current non-DNA general forensics solicitation, which will fund projects that can increase the sensitivity, speed, or reliability of traditional forensic methods in areas such as trace evidence, latent prints, toxicology, controlled substances, and other forensic areas. But new technologies, methods, and techniques can help to achieve better productivity only when laboratories have the time and ability to thoughtfully evaluate and validate them. As the RAND report notes, the laboratories are so overwhelmed by a lack of human resources that infusion of new technology is incredibly difficult at best. These circumstances make the need to support crime laboratory improvement paramount before these critical gains through technology transfer can be made. 

*******************

Article 570

Such technological innovations were identified in a report by a working group of the National Commission on the Future of DNA Evidence as important in enhancing the value of DNA in solving and preventing crime. Some of the program s $5 million annual budget is used to develop technologies and techniques that will immediately improve the use of DNA in today s laboratories. One such improvement allows laboratories to predict instrumentation failures before they occur, thus reducing arbitrary laboratory shut-downs and the risk of loss of crucial evidence. Another example is the development of a mitochondrial DNA screening method that allows labs to examine old, degraded, or very small evidence samples without resorting to the expensive and technically demanding DNA sequencing methods needed beyond the screening stage. The program also supports future improvements such as high throughput, low cost mass spectrometry instrumentation and the exploitation of nanotechnology for forensic applications. We expect the first forensic DNA chip with all 13 of the required genetic markers for data basing to be in the hands of the practitioners for evaluation by October 2001. This chip, under development at MIT s Whitehead Institute of Technology, uses standard, commercially available reagents with a capillary electrophoresis format, but instead of the several hours currently required to analyze a sample, the chip can perform the same task and produce a reliable result in under 10 minutes. This type of instrumentation can save many thousands of man-years of productivity when it is implemented in our nation s labs and may eventually offer new ways to use DNA earlier in investigations. Increases in productivity such as these are a crucial need in forensic laboratories today. The forensic workforce is so severely constrained that it is simply not possible for them to work harder, so we must find ways to help them to work smarter. 

*******************

Article 571

Now, I understand the DOE is currently prioritizing about 113 sites to ensure the most effective and cost-efficient cleanup. Some have suggested on some sites that you simply fence them off in perpetuity. That sounds like a crass approach, but on the other hand, it may have some practicability.

Finally, the budget request includes a slight increase for the Office of Science, $3.16 billion. That office maintains DOE's lead role as the largest federal source of funding for physical sciences and the third largest source of basic research overall after the NIH and the NSF. And I think a lot of people overlook that responsibility.

DOE research has yielded several exciting findings in the past year: human genome, climate modeling, nanotechnology, materials of various kinds, and your budget request also funds core activities going on in several significant areas: DOD, nuclear posture, National Security Council, non-proliferation, DOE's environmental management mission, the vice president's energy task force, and so forth.

Finally, in conclusion, let me congratulate you on a responsible and a modest budget, which is not easy to do in Washington. On the other hand, that happens to be my opinion and there may be others that share different views. In any event, your department will be well- positioned to respond to the findings of the several ongoing policy reviews once those reviews are completed. And I look forward to working with you, Mr. Secretary, to make those changes through budget amendments or legislation.


*******************

Article 572

The FY 2002 request for the Office of Science s basic research portfolio supports the President s goal to strengthen the U.S. scientific enterprise to ensure continued international leadership in technological innovation, and DOE missions in energy, environment, and national security. Basic research in the Office of Science is performed through six major programs: Basic Energy Sciences ($1,005 million) High Energy Physics ($721 million) Biological and Environmental Research ($443 million) Nuclear Physics ($361 million) Fusion Energy Sciences ($238 million, to be amended to increase by $10 million) Advanced Scientific Computing Research ($166 million) In FY 2002, the Basic Energy Sciences (BES) program continues construction of the Spallation Neutron Source to provide the next- generation, short-pulse spallation neutron source for neutron scattering. The project is scheduled for completion in June 2006. Another high priority in FY 2002 is nanoscale science, engineering, and technology research. BES will build on research directions initiated in FY 2001 to explore concepts and designs for Nanoscale Science Research Centers - user facilities similar in concept to existing BES major scientific user facilities and collaborative research centers that will provide unique, state-of- the-art nanofabrication and characterization tools to the scientific community. Significant partnerships with regional academic institutions and state governments are anticipated. The FY 2002 request for High Energy Physics (HEP) reflects the start of a four-year campaign at Fermilab, Illinois to substantially upgrade the luminosity of the Tevatron in an ongoing campaign to discover the Higgs particle (believed to be key to understanding mass) and other new particles predicted by current theories. 

*******************

Article 573

To achieve this requires more cross-disciplinary collaboration among scientists, educators, teachers, and administrators. This suggestion is not unique: Today many of the exciting advances in science occur when scientists collaborate to blur the boundaries of their disciplines. For example, advances in nanotechnology are made by groups of physicists, polymer scientists, and chemists working together; advances in biotechnology requires pooled expertise from medicine, molecular biology, biochemistry and physics. I would be remiss if I did not point out another major problem that directly affects the education of pre-service teachers, and which we could begin to address almost immediately, namely, the way we train our science Ph.D.s. The training of science Ph.D.s consists of immersing the candidate in science content, with no formal requirement demanding that the candidate learn something about learners cognitive development or about pedagogy based on sound learning principles. Consequently, scientists know of no other way to teach than the way they were taught. Addressing this problem, for example by providing incentives to science departments to include courses on the science of learning and pedagogy, would go a long way in aligning the mismatch mentioned above and in curing, or at least alleviating, the schizophrenia we create in prospective teachers. Although I haven t suggested a recipe for structuring teacher education and certification programs, I have suggested ingredients necessary for successful reform. Since universities are essentially entrepreneurial organizations, we need to provide incentives to both science departments and schools of education to reform science teaching and pedagogical training received by prospective teachers. For example, one way of achieving the type of collaboration needed among scientists, educators, teachers, and administrators in crafting new teacher training models is for agencies like NSF to offer program solicitations requiring such collaborations, and also requiring that any model proposed be based on sound principles of teaching and learning (e.g., as outlined in the National Research Council report, How People Learn). 

*******************

Article 574

ROYBAL-ALLARD: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.


Dr. Decker, as I was reading through all this information, one of the things that caught my attention was your testimony about the science at the nanoscale, and I understand that Lawrence Berkeley Lab in California is going to play a very important role in that research. Your testimony mentions the benefits of nanoscale research in DOE's missions in science, energy, defense, and the environment. Could you describe for me in just a bit more detail the work that is contemplated in this field and what your research priorities are and how it's reflected in your budget, because I couldn't find it specifically in the budget.


DECKER: Yes, thank you. This is a very exciting area of science. Material at the nanoscale from one to a hundred nanometers in dimensions is very, very different than the science of materials -- the properties of materials that one finds in the bulk, and the focus of our program, really, is trying to understand the very different physical effects that occur -- chemical effects that occur on this very small scale, which is really about a thousandth to a ten thousandth of the diameter of a human hair. We're really talking about things at a very, very small scale.


A laboratory like Berkeley that you mentioned has some very good capabilities through past investments to significantly contribute to research in this area. It has facilities such as the synchrotron light source there and electron microscope facilities, which are going to be very, very important to characterize these nanostructures, these materials, at this very small scale.


There are some very interesting results that have already come out of this. For example, it's been discovered you can add nanocrystals of aluminum oxide to aluminum and get a surface hardening which is equal to the best steel bearing material. There's a remarkable change in the property of aluminum just through that addition of nanocrystals.


*******************

Article 575

Aerospace Technology The budget request for the Office of Aerospace Technology Enterprise is $2,375.7 million. We are funding the highest priority aeronautical and space technologies while maintaining an active base research program that will enable revolutionary advances in the way we design and operate the aerospace vehicles of the 21" Century. We have terminated projects that have either delivered on most of their promised technology or do not offer a leap in technology commensurate with their funding. Included in those terminated are Intelligent Synthesis Environment (ISE), High Performance Computing and Communication (HPCC), Rotorcraft and other aircraft activities focused on near-term military applications. We are placing additional emphasis, and dollars, on 21 " Century Aerospace Vehicles, Computing, Information & Communication Technology (CICT), Virtual Airspace Modeling and nanotechnology. These increased investments reflect where we need to focus our efforts to expand knowledge and to advance the state of the art in revolutionary new aircraft and air traffic management technology. Aerospace Technology Programs To reflect our new emphasis on innovation, as well as reflect the technical progress gained in recent years, we have reformulated our Enterprise goals-Revolutionize Aviation, Advance Space Transportation, Pioneer Technology Innovation, and Commercialize Technology. Goal One, Revolutionize Aviation. Without a revolution in the aviation system, it will be impossible to accommodate the projected tripling of air travel within two decades in a safe and environmentally friendly manner. Revolutionizing the aviation system to meet the demands for growth means we must provide a distributed flexible and adaptable network of airways-within the physical and environmental constraints of today's system. We must and will address the civil aviation system's fundamental, systemic issues to ensure its continued growth and development, thereby giving backbone to the global transportation system and assuring global economic and cultural success and vitality. We have restructured our Base Research and Technology investments to focus on revolutionary 2l't Century Vehicle technologies. The design and fabrication of 21" Century aerospace vehicles will not be accomplished by the traditional methods of multiple mechanically connected parts and systems. 

*******************

Article 576

The hybrid products I mentioned earlier are but a few examples of the wave of innovation for which the FDA must prepare itself. As we speak, scientists are investigating how to provide physicians and patients with greater therapeutic feedback by integrating information technologies and wireless communication capabilities into medical devices, engineers are exploring how to use nanotechnological concepts to create tiny medical tools to advance the science of minimally invasive medicine, and researchers are studying how to develop customized therapies based on an individual patient s own genetic or cellular characteristics. These areas of inquiry, as you might imagine, are just the tip of the proverbial iceberg. Some of these explorations will prove fruitful, and some will not, but all of them will present the FDA with complicated regulatory dilemmas. To help prepare the FDA for the challenges it will face in the new century, the national device industry associations - MDMA, the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed), and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) - are working together to develop a series of legislative proposals for the subcommittee s consideration. The ideas we are developing, such as the one I have outlined, are aimed at enabling the FDA to use its resources more efficiently, augmenting the expertise of the agency s staff, and assuring the FDA s accountability for its actions. We look forward to sharing these ideas with the subcommittee in the near future and to the vigorous debate that we hope to engender about the continued modernization - or, more appropriately, the futurization - of the FDA.



*******************

Article 577

These vehicles will employ intelligent systems made of smart sensors, micro processors, and adaptive control systems to enable the vehicles to monitor their own performance, their environment, and their human operators in order to avoid crashes, mishaps, and incidents. They will also serve as the means for sensing any damage or impending failure long before it becomes a problem. The research into the technology to make this vision a reality- nanotechnology, biotechnology and information technology-will result in leapfrog capabilities compared to today's state-of-the- art vehicles. Also included in the Aerospace Technology FY 2002 budget is funding to establish 5 university- based Research, Education, and Training Institutes (RETIs). This effort will strengthen NASA's ties to the academic community through long-term sustained investment in areas of innovative, new technology critical to NASA's future and to broaden the capabilities of the Nation's universities to meet the goals and objectives of NASA's future science missions and technology programs. These RETI's will be openly competed at regular intervals and will inched a mandatory sunset date. The FY 2002 budget integrates NASA's investments in bio- nanotechnology computing and electronics which can provide capabilities orders of magnitude better than the best of today's electronics. Developed as detectors and sensors, they could enable spacecraft systems to be much smaller, with higher performance and lower power-consumption than possible with today's technology. Biologically inspired materials will have multi-functional capability and overall performance far greater than current materials. Key capabilities of these systems will be the ability to adapt to changing conditions and Agency mission needs and to detect damage or degradation before it becomes serious and reconfigure or repair themselves. This budget funds the newly restructured Mars Exploration Program (MEP) and sets in place basic technology investments for the next decade of robotic Mars exploration. 

*******************

Article 578

Through this initiative, NASA will reduce technical and programmatic risks to acceptable levels to enable a competition for full scale development of one or more 2nd Generation Reusable Launch Vehicles around the middle of this decade. This budget also includes funding to begin to develop the technologies needed to realize our vision for a 21st century aerospace vehicle. This vision is one in which aerospace vehicles can smoothly change shape, or morph, in flight like birds to optimize performance during complex maneuvers in complete safety, and be capable of self-repair when damaged. These vehicles will employ intelligent systems made of smart sensors, micro processors, and adaptive control systems to enable the vehicles to monitor their own performance, their environment, and their human operators in order to avoid crashes, mishaps, and incidents. They will also serve as the means for sensing any damage or impending failure long before it becomes a problem. The research into the technology to make this vision a reality-- nanotechnology, biotechnology and information technology--will result in leapfrog capabilities compared to today's state-of-the- art vehicles. Also included in the Aerospace Technology FY 2002 budget is funding to establish five university-based Research, Education, and Training Institutes (RETIs). This effort will strengthen NASA's ties to the academic community through long-term sustained investment in areas of innovative, new technology critical to NASA's future and to broaden the capabilities of the nation's universities to meet the goals and objectives of NASA's future science missions and technology programs. These RETI s will be openly competed at regular intervals and will inched a mandatory sunset date. The FY 2002 budget integrates NASA's investments in bio- nanotechnology computing and electronics which can provide capabilities orders of magnitude better than the best of today's electronics. Developed as detectors and sensors, they could enable spacecraft systems to be much smaller, with higher performance and lower power-consumption than possible with today's technology. Biologically inspired materials will have multi-functional capability and overall performance far greater than current materials. Key capabilities of these systems will be the ability to adapt to changing conditions and Agency mission needs and to detect damage or degradation before it becomes serious and reconfigure or repair themselves. 

*******************

Article 579

Basic research in the Office of Science is performed through six major programs: -Basic Energy Sciences ($1,005 million) -High Energy Physics ($721 million) -Biological and Environmental Research ($443 million) -Nuclear Physics ($3 61 million) -Fusion Energy Sciences ($23 8 million, to be amended to increase by $ 10 million) -Advanced Scientific Computing Research ($166 million) In FY 2002, the Basic Energy Sciences (BES) program continues construction of the Spallation Neutron Source to provide the next- generation, short-pulse spallation. neutron source for neutron scattering. The project is scheduled for completion in June 2006. Another high priority in FY 2002 is nanoscale science, engineering, and technology research. BES will build on research directions initiated in FY 2001 to explore concepts and designs for Nanoscale Science Research Centers - user facilities similar in concept to existing BES major scientific user facilities and collaborative research centers that will provide unique, state-of- the-art nanofabrication and characterization tools to the scientific community. Significant partnerships with regional .academic institutions and state governments are anticipated. The FY 2002 request for High Energy Physics (HEP) reflects the start of a four-year campaign at Fermilab, Illinois to substantially upgrade the luminosity of the Tevatron in an ongoing campaign to discover the Higgs particle (believed to be key to understanding mass) and other new particles predicted by current theories. The B-factory at SLAC, California, will begin a three-year program of progressive upgrades, interwoven with intensive operational schedules, to make important contributions toward understanding the preponderance of matter over antimatter in the universe. Appropriately focused support for university and laboratory based physics theory and experimental research will be emphasized in FY 2002. As a founder of the Human Genome Project in 1986, the Biological and Environmental Research (BER) program will, in FY 2002, continue its tradition of developing leading-edge research programs in biology with "Genomes to Life." 

*******************

Article 580

But I assured our lab directors that I was, having gone through the experience on the NIH side, quite interested in helping to build that awareness and educate Americans about what we can do in other areas as well, and I would hope that we could work together to accomplish that.


WAMP: Issues like nanotechnology and protein development now clearly are connections between the physical sciences and life sciences arena and I hope that we can focus through the Department of Energy on the enhancement of that as well.


One other question, then I'll hold my others until we come back around. The Department of Energy inherited from the Atomic Energy Commission most of the facilities across the country after the weapons buildup 50-plus years ago. The infrastructure clearly is aging and eroding and you got some major challenges, we do, the country, to reinvest and rebuild the infrastructure of the weapons facilities and even our national laboratory system. Some of our facilities are 50 years old.


*******************

Article 581

In high energy and nuclear physics, Department of Energy laboratories are now the site of the most advanced experimental facilities in the world. The 2002 budget proposes a program to allow the Tevatron at Fermi Lab to explore the energy range where physicists now expect to observe the Higgs boson, believed to be the source of mass or the fundamental constituents of matter. This proposed budget will also allow the B Factory to dramatically speed up its program of research into the asymmetry that led to the dominance of matter over antimatter. At Brookhaven, the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider will examine the qualities of a man-made quark- gluon plasma, addressing the question of why quarks are so strongly confined inside protons and neutrons and shedding light on the evolution of the early universe. The g-2 and neutrino experimental programs will continue to see if they have indeed found signs of new physics beyond our present understanding.

We're also exploring another scientific frontier -- science at the nanoscale, where the physics of material is governed by the interactions of individual atoms, the molecules and is qualitatively different than at larger scales. The promise for the future is immense. We are now entering a stage of research where structures can be designed, atom by atom, so that the desired characteristics and chemical activity can be controlled. In the future, we should be able to design and synthesize new alloys, ceramics, chemical catalysts and other materials tailored for specific tasks, leading to significant improvements in solar energy conversion, more energy efficient lighting and stronger, lighter materials to improve efficiency in transportation.

The budget request of the Office of Science balances support for our existing programs and facilities with new investments, such as Genomes to Life, and new tools, such as the Spallation Neutron Source. This provides a strong basis for scientific progress in all of the disciplines that we support, while capitalizing on exciting new opportunities and new areas of research.


*******************

Article 582

For example, NIH's budget has doubled in five years while DOE Science cannot even keep up with inflation. Past successes in biomedicine have been built upon the strong foundation of the physical and computational sciences and technologies developed there--from the x-ray, to lasers, to magnetic resonance imaging and beyond. And what about the building blocks of our new economy--computing, microelectronics, fiber optics, and other technologies? Today we are reaping the benefits of scientific investments made in previous decades. However, our economy will not be equipped to take advantage of remarkable new opportunities in genomics, nanotechnology, advanced materials, and other areas unless we increase funding in DOE Science. For Nuclear Energy programs, the Administration has requested $223 million for next year, $20 million less than current year (an 8% cut.) However, the request for the R&D programs managed by the Office of Nuclear Energy is reduced 67%, from $81 million in fiscal year 2001 to $27 million requested for fiscal year 2002. Nuclear energy contributes over 22% of our nation's electricity supply. And, new nuclear technologies promise tremendous benefits from an environmental, safety, and cost standpoint. But while nuclear energy is poised for a dramatic rebirth, this budget request dramatically reduces investments in nuclear R&D. This is a mistake we will work to correct. For Renewable Energy Resources, the Administration has requested $237 million for next year, $136 million less than current year. This represents a cut of 36% from current year. However, renewable energy research enjoys tremendous support among the members of the Senate and a balanced energy policy must continue investments in this area as well. Overall, the budget requests for Science, Nuclear Energy and Renewables will represent significant challenges as we work to put together the appropriations bill this year. But we look forward to hearing from our distinguished witnesses today and then working with you over the course of the year to develop the best bill we can.


*******************

Article 583

Functional materials are those with the ability to self assemble, self repair, sense, respond, and evolve in order to provide functional properties - optical, mechanical, catalytic, electrical, and tribological. Envisioning and creating these materials is the coming challenge for the disciplines of materials sciences, chemistry, physics, and biology. This work during the past few years has led to the expansion in the base program effort in nanoscale research. Within the base research effort in FY 2001, a program in Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and Technology Research will continue to support work at the frontiers of basic research that hold the promise of delivering revolutionary breakthroughs. In the FY 2001 request, new funding in the amount $36.1 million is requested for these activities. Funds are distributed within the Materials Sciences, Chemical Sciences, and Engineering and Geosciences subprograms. The BES program has worked with the National Science and Technology Council's Interagency Working Group on Nanotechnology, the Basic Energy Sciences Advisory Committee (BESAC), and the broad scientific community from academia, industry, and the national laboratories to define and articulate the goals of this research and determine how best to implement a program. In the FY 2001 request, funding in the amount of $2.4 million is requested for Microbial Cell research activities within the Energy Biosciences subprogram. New research activities coordinated with activities in the Biological and Environmental Research program focus on a bacterial cell consisting of a minimal set of genes essential for life. The specific research target will be understanding the biochemical and physiological functions of this set of genes. Additional studies will determine the genes and gene functions required for a particular physiological process. The FY 2001 budget supports continued activities within the Climate Change Technology Initiative (CCTI). In FY 2001, resources of $19.5 million are being requested in BES, which is the same amount as the FY 2000 appropriation. 

*******************

Article 584

But today we will focus on narrower, but equally important questions. We want not only to review the budgets of the individual agencies before us, but to learn how those budgets reflect an overall federal R&D strategy. More specifically, we want to know to what extent, and in what ways, the agencies worked together in developing their budgets. Federal R&D agencies have many complementary - and even overlapping programs, which can be all to the good. But that is only the case when coordination ensures that the result is comprehensiveness rather than mere redundancy.

Such coordination is especially vital in such interagency efforts as research on climate change, information technology and nanotechnology. These cross-cutting programs must reflect a single strategy carried out by several agencies, not a cobbling together of individual agency agendas.

And so that's why we've taken the approach today of bringing in four of the R&D agencies at once; we want to be able to focus on cross- cutting questions. This approach may seem a bit novel now, but we plan to make it routine.


*******************

Article 585

The Office of Science depends heavily on its six scientific advisory committees to identify scientific opportunities and to make recommendations of balance within and sometimes across disciplines and also between facilities and research, In both High Energy and Nuclear Physics, where DOE is the dominant funding agent but NSF has an important role, the advisory committees are jointly owned and provide advice to both agencies. Thus they serve the role both to provide scientific advice and to facilitate interagency coordination.

In addition to joint advisory committees, there are many interagency coordination mechanisms. Some are formal and are organized by the Office of Science and Technology Policy, or are part of the National Science and Technology Coordinating Committee, such as the Subcommittee on Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology that meets monthly and addresses the roles of the various science agencies in nanoscience and nanotechnology. There are also many other effective coordination mechanisms that range from interagency committees and working groups to informal discussions between agency program managers. For example, the Office of Science participates in nearly all of the committees and sub-committees of the National Science and Technology Council and participates in more than 25 other official interagency groups ranging from the Interagency Quantum Information Sciences Coordinating Group to the Interagency Steering Committee for the U.S. Global Change Research Program.

In some cases, interagency coordination results in programs that are jointly managed such as the NSF/DOE Partnership in Basic Plasma Science and Engineering. In other collaborations, such as the Human Genome Project, programs and capabilities have been brought together to work toward common goals.


*******************

Article 586

The Space Flight Operations Contract performed by Shuttle prime contractor continues to comprise almost one-half of the Space Shuttle budget and will increase in size as more contracts are consolidated. budget includes a significant increase in funding for the Space Launch Initiative. The Space Launch Initiative is a focused investment of $4.9 billion dollars between FY2001 and FY2006 for risk reduction and technology development efforts for at least two competing architectures with dramatically lower costs and improved reliability and safety. Through this initiative, NASA will reduce technical and programmatic risks to acceptable levels to enable a competition for full scale development of one or more 2nd Generation Reusable Launch Vehicles around the middle of this decade.

This budget also includes funding to begin to develop the technologies needed to realize our vision for a 21st century aerospace vehicle. This vision is one in which aerospace vehicles can smoothly change shape, or morph, in flight like birds to optimize performance during complex maneuvers in complete safety, and be capable of serf-repair when damaged. These vehicles will employ intelligent systems made of smart sensors, micro processors, and adaptive control systems to enable the vehicles to monitor their own performance, their environment, and their human operators in order to avoid crashes, mishaps, and incidents. They will also serve as the means for sensing any damage or impending failure long before it becomes a problem. The research into the technology to make this vision a reality--- nanotechnology, biotechnology and information technology--will result in leapfrog capabilities compared to today's state-of-the-art vehicles.

Also included in the Aerospace Technology FY 2002 budget is funding to establish five university-based Research, Education, and Training Institutes (RETIs). This effort will strengthen NASA's ties to the academic community through long-term sustained investment in areas of innovative, new technology critical to NASA's future and to broaden the capabilities of the nation's universities to meet the goals and objectives of NASA's future science missions and technology programs. These RETI's will be openly competed at regular intervals and will inched a mandatory sunset date. budget integrates NASA's investments in bio-nanotechnology computing and electronics which can provide capabilities orders of magnitude better than the best of today's electronics. Developed as detectors and sensors, they could enable spacecraft systems to be much smaller, with higher performance and lower power-consumption than possible with today's technology. Biologically inspired materials will have multi-functional capability and overall performance far greater than current materials. Key capabilities of these systems will be the ability to adapt to changing conditions and Agency mission needs and to detect damage or degradation before it becomes serious and reconfigure or repair themselves.

This budget funds the newly restructured Mars Exploration Program (MEP) and sets in place basic technology investments for the next decade of robotic Mars exploration. The MEP strategy is linked to NASA's experience in exploring Earth, and uses Mars as a natural laboratory for understanding life and climate on Earth-like planets. The 2001 Mars Odyssey orbiter was launched on April 7, and two Mars Exploration Rovers are being prepared for launch in 2003. Following that, NASA is planning for a Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter mission in 2005, and a competitively selected Mars Scout mission. In addition, science definition and technology development for a next-generation, mobile surface laboratory in 2007 is underway that will pave the way for a potential sample return mission early in the next decade.

*******************

Article 587

Laboratory Experiments and Modeling. Available information indicates that plutonium used in pit applications is stable; however, we must assess the effects of long-term aging. Plutonium s properties are among the most complex of all the elements. To study the subtleties of plutonium, we have combined advances in theoretical modeling with the use of sophisticated experiments. For example, we are using old pits and accelerated-aging alloys to determine the lifetime of pits. Accelerated-aging samples are plutonium alloys with a mixture of isotopes to increase the rate of self- irradiation damage so that the material ages faster. Data from our materials, engineering, and dynamic experiments show, so far, that pits are stable. Livermore has conducted important experiments on old pits using advanced materials characterization tools such as our Transmission Electron Microscope, the most powerful such instrument in the NNSA complex. Using the Transmission Electron Microscope, we have discovered nanoscale inch) bubbles that are likely filled with helium in the microstructure of aged plutonium. The plutonium appears to be accommodating the helium, which is created through self- irradiation, in a stable form. The presence of these bubbles was predicted theoretically using computer simulations of the radiation damage process. Experiments at the Nevada Test Site. Livermore is conducting sub- critical experiments at the Nevada Test Site to investigate the properties of plutonium shocked and accelerated by high explosives. Matter can be ejected from the free surface of materials that undergo shock. 

*******************

Article 588

These vehicles will employ intelligent systems made of smart sensors, micro processors, and adaptive control systems to enable the vehicles to monitor their own performance, their environment, and their human operators in order to avoid crashes, mishaps, and incidents. They will also serve as the means for sensing any damage or impending failure long before it becomes a problem. The research into the technology to make this vision a reality-- nanotechnology, biotechnology and information technology--will result in leapfrog capabilities compared to today s state-of-the- art vehicles. Also included in the Aerospace Technology FY 2002 budget is funding to establish five university-based Research, Education, and Training Institutes (RETIs). This effort will strengthen NASA s ties to the academic community through long-term sustained investment in areas of innovative, new technology critical to NASA s future and to broaden the capabilities of the nation s universities to meet the goals and objectives of NASA s future science missions and technology programs. These RETI s will be openly competed at regular intervals and will inched a mandatory sunset date. The FY 2002 budget integrates NASA s investments in bio- nanotechnology computing and electronics which can provide capabilities orders of magnitude better than the best of today s electronics. Developed as detectors and sensors, they could enable spacecraft systems to be much smaller, with higher performance and lower power-consumption than possible with today s technology. Biologically inspired materials will have multi-functional capability and overall performance far greater than current materials. 

*******************

Article 589

This emphasis on the mathematical sciences recognizes its increasingly critical role in advancing interdisciplinary research. This investment will bring cutting- edge mathematics to address problems in the physical, biological, and social sciences. Some examples include studies of brain function, communication networks, modern economic behaviors, and the modeling and prediction of major weather events, such as tornadoes or hurricanes. Priority Areas In addition to investments in core research and education, NSF identifies and supports emerging opportunities in priority areas that hold exceptional promise to advance knowledge. The FY 2002 Budget emphasizes four priority areas - Biocomplexity in the Environment, Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering, and Learning for the 21st Century. All of these areas receive increased investment over last year's amounts. Biocomplexity and the Environment The FY 2002 budget request builds on past investments in our Biocomplexity in the Environment portfolio and increases funds by nearly 6 percent, to $58 million. Computational and information technologies, real time sensing techniques, and genomics are providing insight into the interactions among ecological, social, and physical earth systems. For example, recently investigators have been studying contaminant flux of the lower Mississippi River, dynamics of an invasive non-native species on the Pacific Coast, and marine mammal abundance in the western Arctic Ocean. Developing new research instruments and software that advance cross-disciplinary studies in the environment will continue to improve our understanding of the planet and its systems. Information Technology Research The Information Technology Research budget request expands fundamental research in another multidisciplinary area. Our requested $273 million investment, 5 percent over last year, allows us to explore ways of making large-scale networking, software, and systems more reliable, stable, and secure. This will permit diverse applications from telemedicine, to interactive education, to the remote operation of experimental apparatus--such as the telescope at the South Pole. Other research will improve our understanding of human-computer interactions and investigate the impact of IT on our society, on our economy, and on our educational system. Because the information technology sector has contributed significantly to recent U.S. economic growth, these investments remain a top priority. Nanoscale Science and Engineering In nanoscale science and engineering--colloquially known as nanotechnology--activities range from investigation of biologically based systems that exhibit novel properties to the study of nanoscale control of the structure and composition of new materials. Recognizing the importance of this emerging discipline, NSF is increasing its investment by 16.1 percent to $174 million in FY 2002. Fundamental research programs will investigate biosystems at the nanoscale--such as nanoscale sensors to detect cancer. Research will focus on system architectures, nanoscale processes in the environment--for instance, the trapping and release of contaminants--multi-scale modeling, and large-scale computer simulation of processes at the molecular or atomic level. Grand challenges include major long-term research objectives in nanoscale electronics, nano-based manufacturing, and nanostructured materials by design. Learning for the 21st Century Learning for the 21st Century addresses two interrelated challenges: understanding how we learn; and transferring that knowledge for use in schools, homes and other learning environments. Research, development, and testing of educational tools incorporating information technology will give us a much better understanding of how they can be used effectively in the classroom. Accordingly, the NSF request for these activities, $126 million, is a 3.3 percent increase over last year. A key component of this priority area is the Centers for Learning and Teaching program. Like the Math and Science Partnerships, these link K-12 and higher education. They allow opportunities for teachers to gain new skills in the use of information technology in education, new knowledge in science and mathematics, and--most importantly--allow them to integrate these with new research on learning. Applications of research results will increase opportunities for higher achievement and, ultimately, produce a workforce able to meet the challenges of rapid scientific and technological change. Other FY 02 highlights I'd like to bring this overview to a close by sharing some other highlights. I am a firm believer in the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research, or EPSCoR--which enables researchers to participate more fully in NSF research activities. FY 2002 funding for EPSCoR will total nearly $100 million. 

*******************

Article 590

The Office of Science depends heavily on its six scientific advisory committees to identify scientific opportunities and to make recommendations of balance within and sometimes across disciplines and also between facilities and research. In both High Energy and Nuclear Physics, where DOE is the dominant funding agent but NSF has an important role, the advisory committees are jointly owned and provide advice to both agencies. Thus they serve the role both to provide scientific advice and to facilitate interagency coordination. In addition to joint advisory committees, there are many interagency coordination mechanisms. Some are formal and are organized by the Office of Science and Technology Policy, or are part of the National Science and Technology Coordinating Committee, such as the Subcommittee on Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology that meets monthly and addresses the roles of the various science agencies in nanoscience and nanotechnology. There are also many other effective coordination mechanisms that range from interagency committees and working groups to informal discussions between agency program managers. For example, the Office of Science participates in nearly all of the committees and sub-committees of the National Science and Technology Council and participates in more than 25 other official interagency groups ranging from the Interagency Quantum Information Sciences Coordinating Group to the Interagency Steering Committee for the U.S. Global Change Research Program. In some cases, interagency coordination results in programs that are jointly managed such as the NSF/DOE Partnership in Basic Plasma Science and Engineering. In other collaborations, such as the Human Genome Project, programs and capabilities have been brought together to work toward common goals. FY 2002 OFFICE OF SCIENCE PRIORITIES The Office of Science s FY 2002 budget request provides sustained support to U.S. university and national laboratory researchers working on enormously complex scientific problems that will help to ensure our economic prosperity by advancing the mission of the DOE. The diversity of SC s basic research portfolio, combined with our traditional strengths in the operation of national scientific user facilities and support for multidisciplinary research, will prove vital to our national pursuit of the scientific challenges of FY 2002. 

*******************

Article 591

To study the subtleties of plutonium, we have combined advances in theoretical modeling with the use of sophisticated experiments. For example, we are using old pits and accelerated- aging alloys to determine the lifetime of pits. Accelerated-aging samples are plutonium alloys with a mixture of isotopes to increase the rate of self-irradiation damage so that the material ages faster. Data from our materials, engineering, and dynamic experiments show, so far, that pits are stable. Livermore has conducted important experiments on old pits using advanced materials characterization tools such as our Transmission Electron Microscope, the most powerful such instrument in the NNSA complex. Using the Transmission Electron Microscope, we have discovered nanoscale (10 inch) bubbles that are likely filled with helium in the microstructure of aged plutonium. The plutonium appears to be accommodating the helium, which is created through self-irradiation, in a stable form. The presence of these bubbles was predicted theoretically using computer simulations of the radiation damage process. Experiments at the Nevada Test Site. Livermore is conducting sub- critical experiments at the Nevada Test Site to investigate the properties of plutonium shocked and accelerated by high explosives. Matter can be ejected from the free surface of materials that undergo shock. The experiments characterize ejecta, which is thought to affect the performance of primaries in weapons. Performance is being studied as a function of plutonium age as well as surface finish and manufacturing technique. Results will affect estimates of pit lifetime and decisions about future production of replacement pits, and improve our fundamental understanding of performance. Unlike our first three subcritical experiments, tests in the current Oboe series are performed inside individual confinement vessels. Six of the eight planned Oboe experiments have been completed, four of them in 2000. 

*******************

Article 592

These actuators will smoothly change the shape of the wing for optimal flying conditions. The control surface will be integrated with, instead of an appendage of, the wing, as they are today. Intelligent systems made of these smart sensors, micro processors, and adaptive control systems will enable vehicles to monitor their own performance, their environment, and their human operators in order to avoid crashes, mishaps, and incidents. Distributed as a network throughout the structure they will provide the means for embedding a "nervous system" in the structure and stimulating it to create physical response and even change shape. They will also serve as the means for sensing any damage or impending failure long before it becomes a problem. These future structures rely on an emerging technology that builds the systems from the molecular, or nano-scale-known as nanotechnology. Revolutionary carbon nanotubes have the promise to be 100 times stronger than steel and only 1/6 the weight. We are at the leading-edge of this technology, transitioning from fundamental physics to building actual macroscopic materials. Much work remains to be accomplished. If we are successful, an aircraft made from this material could weigh as little as half a conventional aircraft manufactured with today's materials and be extremely flexible allowing the wing to re-form to optimal shapes, remain extremely resistant to damage, and potentially "self-heal." The high strength-to-weight ratio of these nano- materials could enable new vehicle designs that can withstand crashes and protect the passengers against injury. The application of high temperature nano-scale materials to aircraft engines may be equally dramatic. 

*******************

Article 593

To meet the challenges of safety, noise, emissions and performance an entirely new level of vehicle efficiency, functionality and environmental compatibility must be achieved. We stand at a unique time in technology evolution--a time where numerous advanced technologies have been developed or are on the horizon that will break the current "tube with wings" shape paradigm for aircraft. The significant advances in biotechnology, nanotechnology, and information technology are opening the door to a new era in aircraft development resulting in designs that will be radically different from today's aircraft. The continued viability of aviation is not through evolutionary or near-term approaches alone, but through development of revolutionary advances utilizing these emerging technologies. As Mr. Goldin has pointed out, the aircraft of the future will not be built of traditional, multiple, mechanically-connected parts and systems. Instead, aircraft wing construction will employ fully integrated, embedded, "smart" materials and actuators that will operate more like a bird's wing. If we can emulate the characteristics present in nature, then we will be able to use these characteristics to develop revolutionary civil and military aircraft. Rather than optimizing the vehicle shape for just one phase of flight (perhaps with some mechanical motion to achieve enhanced performance at a limited number of other conditions) we could have an aircraft which, like a bird, constantly changes its shape to achieve optimal performance at all flight conditions. Able to respond to the constantly varying conditions of flight, sensors will act like the "nerves" in a bird's wing and will measure the pressure over the entire surface of the wing. The response to these measurements will direct actuators, which will function like the bird's wing "muscles". Just as a bird instinctively uses different feathers on its' wings to control its' flight, the actuators will change the shape of the aircraft's wings to continuously optimize flying conditions. Intelligent systems composed of sensors, actuators, microprocessors, and adaptive or neural controls will provide an effective "central nervous system" for stimulating the structure to effect an adaptive "physical response." The central nervous system will provide many advantages over current technologies. Proposed 21st Century aerospace vehicles will be able to monitor their own environment, performance, and even their operators in order to improve fuel efficiency, minimize airframe noise, and enhance safety. They will also have systems that will provide safe takeoffs and landings from short airfields enabling access to this country's more than 5,400 rural/regional airports. Researchers at NASA Langley Research Center are exploring these advanced vehicle concepts and revolutionary new technologies. New materials, actuators, and sensors Langley Research Center has made pioneering contributions in composite technology development. We have recently initiated research activities on the development of nanostructured and biologically inspired material concepts. These new classes of materials have the potential to mimic the attractive attributes of biological systems including self-assembly, self-diagnostics, self-repair, and multi-functionality. The emergence of computational material analysis capabilities will give engineers the ability to design materials to achieve the desired functionality leading to ultra-lightweight, structurally efficient aerospace vehicles. Using physics-based computer simulations, Langley researchers have shown that carbon nanotube reinforced composites have the potential to be three times stronger and four times stiffer than even the composite materials used on aircraft such as the B-2 stealth bomber and the Boeing 777. Such new materials could reduce the vehicle structural weight by about 50 percent and the required fuel by about 25 percent. The gains in a next generation reusable launch vehicle would be even more dramatic because the new nanotube reinforced composite material would be replacing conventional aluminum. In this case the predicted vehicle dry weight could be reduced by a factor of four. 

*******************

Article 594

It's clear to me that the future of U.S. aviation relative to both international and national concerns, depends on adopting and developing new technologies. The need is both short-term and long- term, and we must pursue both evolutionary and revolutionary advances.


The aircraft of the future, as expressed by some of the visionaries here, the aircraft of the future will be cleaner. It will be safer. It will be faster and it will be quieter. Nanotechnology composites will be a part of achieving this goal.


The innovation process that we currently utilize for aeronautics must be reviewed to ensure that it is operating properly and efficiently. Industry and government, I think will probably have to establish never before seen types of relationships that will move this country in ways that no one has ever dreamed.



*******************

Article 595

And, similarly, the Defense Department acquisition system is simply not very well suited to exploit information technology. It's still tied to projecting distant threats, acquiring programs that take decades to work out, and it rewards freezing programs at an early stage and penalizing change. It's a system ruled by Augustine's laws, where the real growth and the cost of major platforms run from five to seven percent per year, rather than Moore's law, where capability doubles every 18 months and the price goes down. And as Norm Augustine told us several years ago with this sort of cost growth, by 2054 the entire Department of Defense will fly one airplane. The Air Force will fly half the year, Navy will fly it half the year -- the Marines get it on leap years for one day. (Laughter.)

Now, communications and computer technologies provide us some opportunities to break Augustine's curve and to get on to Moore's curves. But some -- and some direction application of things -- nanotechnology, some other technologies, will enable us to break through in some new fields, requiring less maintenance, fewer life cycle costs. And this sort of leads us to budgets.

We are all familiar with the formidable shortfall in resources under our current ways of doing business throughout the armed forces. I can tell you that the Pacific command forces are not as ready as they need to be. Air wings bottom out in their readiness between deployments. Walk around any base in the Pacific, and you will see the signs of inadequate funding of real property maintenance. The service chiefs have all testified about the underfunding of modernization to replace today's force structure. There have been estimates by outfits like the Congressional Budget Office, think tank studies, and they place the shortfall anywhere from a few billions of dollars to tens of billions of dollars per year.


*******************

Article 596

Fourth, we have a genuine problem, starting at the national command authority, with the reality that you have simultaneous, real- time, world-wide requirements where the president has to be worried on the one hand about the Argentine economy, on the other hand about negotiations between the Palestinians and Israel, with whatever Saddam is doing, whatever the problems are this morning between Macedonia and the Albanians, whatever is happening in Colombia, we don't have a mechanism today for integrating that many different things simultaneously, and it's a very, very real challenge.

Fifth, there is a true revolution in scientific affairs, starting with nanoscale science and technology, quantum mechanics and physics, and biology, which will swamp the current revolution in military affairs. And I think it's very important for this committee to work with DARPA to understand the basic research level, and to get briefed by the National Science Foundation on the scale of the change which is coming, which in my judgment, after 2-1/2 years of being out of this body and going out and listening to people, is probably as much change in the next 25 years as in the entire 20th century.

And I would particularly commend to the committee to go to the Ames NASA Laboratory and just spend a half day getting briefed on what they're doing combining supercomputing, nanoscale science and technology, and biology, which is, I think, the most interesting single facility in the United States. It's at Moffett Field near Stanford.

Finally, I think that it's important for this committee to look at the service budgets and insist on deep experimentation now with new technologies. One example. We have a capacity in remotely piloted vehicle technology which should empower every ship to know several hundred miles inland what's going on by using non-piloted vehicles with very long loiter capability in a way which just dramatically expands our intelligence capability.


*******************

Article 597

During the past decade, funding in constant dollars for the DOE Office of Science was reduced by approximately 13 percent. It is the research itself that has been most significantly impacted, since the costs of maintaining existing facilities and their associated staffs continue to rise with inflation. This has prevented the Office of Science from fully participating in technical areas important to DOE s statutory mission, such as high performance computing and nanotechnology. This erosion of resources has also reduced the number of scientists and students conducting physical science research at DOE s national user facilities and America s colleges and universities. This aspect alone could have a disastrous long-term effect. Already, doctoral candidates are choosing life sciences over physical sciences. In 1999, the number of doctorates awarded in science and engineering was the lowest figure in six years. This trend is reflected in undergraduate degrees as well, which over the past decade have declined significantly. Doubtless this exacerbates a shortage of highly skilled labor, posing a serious dilemma for academia, business, and government leaders alike because of the potential effect it could have on America s continued economic growth. This shift in human capital and resources to the life sciences has had a dramatic impact on America s ability to engage in cutting edge physical sciences research. It also poses a threat to our national security, but you don t have to take my word for it. According to the Hart-Rudman Report on National Security, and I quote . . .the U.S. government has seriously underfunded basic scientific research in recent years. The quality of the U.S. education system, too, has fallen well behind those of scores of other nations. . . .the inadequacies of our systems of research and education pose a greater threat to U.S. national security over the next quarter century than any potential conventional war that we might imagine. 

*******************

Article 598

During the past decade, funding in constant dollars for the DOE Office of Science was reduced by approximately 13 percent. It is the research itself that has been most significantly impacted, since the costs of maintaining existing facilities and their associated staffs continue to rise with inflation. This has prevented the Office of Science from fully participating in technical areas important to DOE's statutory mission, such as high performance computing and nanotechnology. This erosion of resources has also reduced the number of scientists and students conducting physical science research at DOE's national user facilities and America's colleges and universities. This aspect alone could have a disastrous long-term effect. Already, doctoral candidates are choosing life sciences over physical sciences. In 1999, the number of doctorates awarded in science and engineering was the lowest figure in six years. This trend is reflected in undergraduate degrees as well, which over the past decade have declined significantly. Doubtless this exacerbates a shortage of highly skilled labor, posing a serious dilemma for academia, business, and government leaders alike because of the potential effect it could have on America's continued economic growth. This shift in human capital and resources to the life sciences has had a dramatic impact on America's ability to engage in cutting edge physical sciences research. 

*******************

Article 599

And let me just say, looking ahead, we have roughly doubled spending on medical research in the last six years or so. We have announced this year the sequencing of the human genome. A little over a year ago, the two genetic variations that are high predictors of breast cancer were identified.

Now, what all this means is, first of all, that we're going to be able to prevent more diseases. Secondly, we're going to have quicker treatment. I am convinced that the development of so-called nanotechnology, which will enable us to have, for example, computer storage capacity on things the size of a teardrop that are bigger than supercomputers today, and will, within a matter of a few years, allow us to go after cancers when they are only a few cells large, so our idea today about identifying a cancer early will seem like, within five years, identifying a cancer in very late stages, all this is going to change everything for the better.

But I will say again, we had to put these privacy rules out that we put out, we've got to pass this anti-discrimination legislation, and we have to make sure that we continue to invest in not only the research but then the distribution of the wonders, through adequate care coverage. It won't be long before the average young mother will come home with a little gene map of her baby. (Laughter.) And it will have -- some of them will have really scary things on there, but -- and it will be a burden for some people. But they will also have a list of things that, if the mothers and fathers will do these things, the kids will dramatically increase their chances of living a long and healthy life. And it won't be long till the average mother will bring home a baby with a life expectancy of 90 years or more. Our bodies are actually built to last more than 100 years, if we didn't have all the problems that get in our way along life's way.


*******************

Article 600

High-speed broadband Internet access has become an indispensable tool for businesses, schools, libraries and hospitals, and access to this service is fast becoming the line between the haves and have-nots in the information age. We should create tax credits, grants and loans to make broadband service as universal tomorrow as telephone access is today.

DASCHLE: Over the past century, federal investments and research have helped split the atom, sequenced the genome, invent the microchip, the laser and the Internet, and help create millions of jobs. In this century, nanotechnology, robotics, advanced energy technologies like fuel cells and solid state lighting, and biotechnologies like gene therapy have the potential to do the same. We should double civilian R&D funding including the funding for the National Science Foundation. And we should fully fund the Advanced Technology Program to speed these innovations to market.

It's critical that the Congress provide funding for a balanced research portfolio. Increasing the NIH budget is important, but it should not be the sole objective of U.S. science and technology policy. Expanded investments in areas such as physics, computer science, mathematics and electrical engineering are essential to maintaining America's economic and technological leadership in the 21st century.


*******************

Article 601

That upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this section is in addition to any other transfer authority contained elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That funds appropriated by this section, or made available by the transfer of funds in this section, for intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for the purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That the entire amount made available in this section is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

Sec. 314. Of the total amount appropriated by title IV of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-259) under the heading "Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy", up to $3,000,000 shall be made available to the Marine Corps to pursue research in Nanotechnology for Consequence Management.

Sec. 315. Of the total amount appropriated by title IV of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-259) under the heading "Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army", not less than $1,500,000 shall be made available only for installation of the Medical Area Network for Virtual Technologies at Fort Detrick and Walter Reed Army Hospital, and not less than $1,000,000 shall be made available only to conduct a pilot study to determine the feasibility of establishing a Department of Defense Information Analysis Center for telemedicine.


*******************

Article 602

The first principle is ground decisions in science. FDA is held in such high regard because we ground our decision-marking in scientific evidence and on assessing risk, whether we're reviewing a new drug, deciding about the safety of a food additive, deliberating about a public health policy or taking an enforcement action. FDA is expected to stand in judgment of the products that result from traditional development in the area of pharmaceuticals to therapeutics developed as the result of modern biotechnology, such as gene therapy.


The mapping of the human genome and exploiting knowledge to develop new therapeutics and diagnostics has already spawned the burgeoning fields of genomics and prodeomics (ph). The ability to miniaturize has brought nanotechnology, artificial intelligence, robotics.



HENNEY: Products on the near horizon will no doubt meld all three: nanorobots that can enter the circulatory system, delivering just the right amount of drug or gene product to the right place.


*******************

Article 603

It is possible that technology waves of the 21st century will differ from technology waves of the past. Perhaps large company size will become more important as the "network effects" of information-based industries lead to concentration. (449) But experts erroneously predicted in the 1970s that the age of high-tech start-ups was over and that Silicon Valley would consolidate. (450) Future industries may be less likely to become concentrated because of growing uncertainties in markets, and because smaller firms are benefiting from the trend towards collaborative R&D. (451) In a recent report, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development noted, "As new technologies and globalization reduce the importance of economies of scale in many activities, the potential contribution of smaller firms is enhanced." (452) The report goes on to note, "Networking allows small and medium-size enterprises to combine the advantages of smaller scale and greater flexibility with economies of scale and scope in larger markets."


Whatever the structure of future industries, we do know for sure that there will be many entrepreneurial waves in the 21st century. Future innovations may stem from advances in Internet technologies, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space travel, energy generation, and many other fields. The opportunities available to tomorrow's entrepreneurs appear to be endless.

B. Creating Public Policy Change
 


The momentum of change from today's entrepreneurial and technological revolutions is making governments rethink their role in the economy. Many commentators have noticed the stark contrast between the rapid changes in high-tech industries, and the slow, ponderous actions of government. For example, while the federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 was generally regarded as a success, now only four years later many concede that it needs to be updated because of subsequent marketplace developments.



*******************

Article 604

Finally, the conferees have agreed to bill language which: (1) prohibits funds spent in this or any other Act to acquire or lease a research vessel with ice-breaking capability built or retrofitted outside of the United States if such a vessel of United States origin can be obtained at a cost of not more than 50 per centum above the cost of the least expensive, technically acceptable, non-United States vessel; (2) requires that the amount of subsidy or financing provided by a foreign government, or instrumentality thereof, to a vessel's construction shall be included as part of the total cost of such vessel; and (3) provides that should a U.S. vessel as set forth in the foregoing language not be available for leasing for the austral summer Antarctic season of 2002-2003, and thereafter, a vessel of any origin can be leased for a period not to exceed 120 days of that season and every season thereafter until delivery of such a United States vessel occurs.

The conference agreement provides an increase of $384,000,000 above the fiscal year 2000 appropriated level for research and related activities. Within the appropriated level is $215,000,000 for the information technology initiative, $75,000,000 for the biocomplexity initiative, $65,000,000 for plant genome research for economically significant crops, $150,000,000 for the new nanotechnology initiative, $75,000,000 for major research instrumentation, $94,910,000 for facilities within the astronomical sciences activity, and $1,000,000 to begin design and model testing of a vessel to replace the R/V Alpha Helix.

The increase of $15,000,000 provided for astronomical sciences facilities is intended to upgrade specifically facilities and operations, including new construction and instrumentation as appropriate, for the Arecibo Observatory, the Green Bank Telescope, the Very Large Array, the Very Long Baseline Array, and other facilities in need of such attention on a priority basis. The Foundation is directed to provide the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate with a list of facilities and the specific needs of each, on a priority basis, within the Operating Plan submission and on a semi-yearly basis after that.


*******************

Article 605

This interaction permits us to cultivate relationships with key suppliers and contributors, explore technical frontiers with those who have a common interest, and maintain critical mission-related competencies at world-class levels during a period of reduced federal investment. Partnerships have directly benefited DOE missions as we have learned of new approaches and technologies and applied them to support our internal programs.

As you know, the mission responsibilities of Sandia National Laboratories and Los Alamos National Laboratory are centered on stewardship of the nation's nuclear weapons stockpile. This is a long-term obligation that requires sustained expertise in many technical disciplines. We must exercise, maintain, and continuously improve the technical competencies required for this work. Nuclear weapons stewardship requires advanced technology, some of which is specific to nuclear weapons, but much of which is common to the standard science and engineering disciplines. If we don't keep up with the advancing frontiers in electronics, materials science, computer science, nanotechnology, and so forth, we cannot perform our mission in the long term. Cooperative work with industry often helps support technologies that are strategic for the nuclear weapons program.

As a result of our cooperative research and development work with Sematech, we were able to revitalize our microelectronics fabrication facility through a major donation of equipment and research instrumentation from IBM valued at over $20 million. The facility became a dual-benefit project with industry and hosted partnership projects with U.S. microelectronics manufacturers and universities. Without the major support provided by IBM and other industrial partners through collaborative research programs, Sandia would not have a modern semiconductor fabrication facility today. And this facility is absolutely critical to our mission. We are the only government laboratory with both research and production capability supporting radiation-hardened microelectronic components for defense and space applications.


*******************

Article 606

The conference agreement includes $2,000,000 for the Discovery Science Center in Orange County, California; $1,500,000 for the Children's Hospital emergency power plant in San Diego; $1,000,000 for the Center for Science and Education at the University of San Diego; $500,000 for the bone marrow transplant program at Children's Hospital Medical Center Foundation in Oakland, California; $1,000,000 for the North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System in New York; $1,700,000 for the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago; $2,000,000 for the Livingston Digital Millenium Center to be located at Tulane University; and $1,000,000 for the Center for Nuclear Magnetic Resonance at the University of Alabama Birmingham.

The conference agreement includes $3,000,000 for the Nanotechnology Engineering Center at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana; $2,000,000 for the School of Public Health at the University of South Carolina for modernization upgrades; $2,000,000 for the National Center for Musculoskeletal Research at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York; and $1,300,000 for the Western States Visibility Assessment Program at New Mexico Tech to trace emissions resulting from energy consumption.

The conference agreement includes $1,000,000 for high temperature super conducting research and development at Boston College; $2,500,000 for the positron emission tomography facility at West Virginia University; $1,000,000 for the advanced medical imaging center at Hampton University; $500,000 for the Natural Energy Laboratory in Hawaii; $800,000 for the Child Health Institute of New Brunswick, New Jersey; and $900,000 for the linear accelerator for University Medical Center of Southern Nevada.


*******************

Article 607

To improve planning and priority-setting for the Foundation and improve the Committee's efforts to understand NSF's long-term budgeting, the Committee directs NSF to provide multi-year budgets for all of its multi-disciplinary activities beginning in fiscal year 2002. While the Foundation has provided outyear budgets for projects under its Major Research Equipment account, only 1 year budgets have been generally provided for its activities under the R&RA and Education and Human Resources accounts. The Committee recognizes that NSF has taken on more significant initiatives that often require multi-year funding to meet its research goals. For example, NSF has initiated major efforts in the areas of information technology, biocomplexity, and nanotechnology. Accordingly, the Committee directs NSF to include the outyear budget impacts and needs of all these major multi-disciplinary activities in the annual operating plan.

To further NSF's major initiatives, the Committee recommends an additional $125,000,000 in new funding to enhance its computer and information science and engineering activities consistent with the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee (PITAC) recommendations in its February 1999 report. These additional funds would increase the level of support for the information technology initiative to $215,000,000. As prescribed in the PITAC report and the fiscal year 2000 conference report accompanying the VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act (House Report 106-379), the Committee expects NSF to provide an increased ratio of grants at higher funding levels and for longer duration than what is typically funded. Further, the Committee encourages NSF to continue its efforts under the Next Generation Internet program in providing high-speed networking access to remote and hard to reach areas, especially in rural States.

The Committee recommends $75,000,000 for the Foundation's biocomplexity initiative, an increase of $25,000,000 over last year's level. The Committee supports this multi-disciplinary initiative. This program should also complement the highly successful Plant Genome Research Program.

The Committee recommends $65,000,000 for the Plant Genome Research Program and supports the Foundation's request to initiate the new "2010 Project" and supplement the program with $20,000,000 from other basic research activities throughout the biological sciences directorate. The Committee expects the Foundation to continue its support for structural and functional plant genomic research on economically significant crops. The Committee recognizes the findings of the Interagency Working Group (IWG) on Plant Genomes, which recommended spending at least $320,000,000 over 5 years in new funds on plant genome research.

The "2010 Project" is expected to create needed genome-wide tools that will lead to more rapid advances in functional genomics research in valuable food crops. The Committee encourages NSF to work with the IWG on Plant Genomes to develop recommendations on how best to make use of the important tools that will be developed through the "2010 Project." The Committee is also excited by NSF's supported research in nutritional genomics, which will lead to the discovery in plants of key genes controlling metabolic pathways that lead to production of vitamins, essential amino acids, antioxidants, and accumulation of minerals essential for human nutrition. This research could substantially improve the nutritional quality and health benefit of eating normal portions of fruits and vegetables, which would greatly benefit people in developing countries. The Committee encourages NSF representatives to the IWG on Plant Genomes to work with other IWG representatives in developing recommendations for the Committee concerning research and training in nutritional genomics.

The Committee recommends $125,000,000 for the new multi-agency nanotechnology initiative. The Committee believes that the recommended level of funding will be adequate for the Foundation to begin this initiative in a field that is still regarded to be in its infancy. The recommended level is less than the $216,700,000 requested level due to concerns about the Foundation taking on another major interagency initiative when its administrative resources have remained relatively flat. The Committee expects the Foundation to work with the Office of Science and Technology Policy in carefully crafting a detailed, rational long-term strategy with performance outcome measurements for the nanotechnology initiative. Further, the Committee directs NSF to include in its budget justifications for fiscal year 2002, a workload-analysis plan that identifies the resources necessary for the Foundation to carry out this initiative and other current and future program responsibilities.

The Committee recognizes the significant infrastructure needs of our nation's research institutions, especially for smaller research institutions that have not traditionally benefitted from Federal programs. The Committee is especially concerned about the larger schools receiving a disproportionate share of scarce Federal resources from indirect cost reimbursements to fund infrastructure needs. As a result, the Committee recommends $75,000,000 to the Foundation's Major Research Instrumentation (MRI) account to address the infrastructure needs of research institutions. NSF is encouraged to target these funds in assisting smaller research institutions.


*******************

Article 608

Paragraph (b)(4) Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES).

Paragraph (b)(4)(A) provides for the development of a comprehensive national carbon cycle and agricultural best practices research agenda by CSREES through land-grant colleges and universities.

Paragraph (b)(4)(B) provides for research opportunities to improve the scientific basis for using land management practices to increase soil carbon, including innovative methods using biotechnology and nanotechnology.

Subparagraph (b)(4)(C) provides the Secretary, acting through CSREES, authority to: use partnerships to identify, develop, and evaluate agricultural best practices; develop computer models to predict and assess the carbon cycle; estimate and develop mechanisms to measure change in carbon levels resulting from voluntary programs; develop outreach programs; and research new technologies that may increase carbon cycle effectiveness.


*******************

Article 609

Quantum information science (QIS) is a relatively new field of science and technology, drawing on the disciplines of physical science, mathematics, computer science, and engineering. Its aim is to understand how certain fundamental laws of physics can be harnessed to dramatically improve how we transmit and process information. The exciting scientific opportunities offered by QIS are attracting the interest of a growing community of scientists and technologists, and are promoting unprecedented interactions across traditional disciplinary boundaries. Advances in QIS will become increasingly critical to our national competitiveness in information technology during the coming century. 

The information technology revolution of the past several decades has been driven by steady advances in the miniaturization of electronic circuitry on silicon chips, allowing performance to double roughly every 18 months ("Moore's law"). But in fewer than 20 years, this shrinkage will reach atomic dimensions, necessitating new approaches if progress is to continue at anything like the rate we have become used to. Accordingly, considerable thought and long-range planning are already being devoted to the challenges of designing and fabricating devices at the atomic scale and getting them to work reliably, a field broadly known as nanotechnology.

However, it has long been known that atoms and other tiny objects obey laws of quantum physics that in many respects defy common sense. For example, observing an atom disturbs its motion, while not observing it causes it to spread out and behave as flit were in several different places at the same time. Until about five years ago, such quantum effects were mostly regarded as a nuisance, causing small devices to be less reliable and more error-prone than their larger cousins.


*******************

Article 610

The second mystery of the quantum world is entangled states; two particles can have linked spins even though they are at a distance. Manipulating one particle and then reading the spin of the other, linked, particle is the basis of quantum information teleportation. This has been demonstrated in laboratory conditions and appears to be feasible way to securely distribute cryptographic keys over tens of miles.

The research challenges of quantum computing are enormous. To mention just a few general areas of research: new types of algorithms are needed that utilize being in multiple states, new devices that have coherent spin states immune to environment hazards are being invented, and many device forms - such as liquids for nuclear magnetic resonance manipulation, ion traps, quantum dots, etc. - are being considered.

My colleagues can expand on their work in these areas, but I want to emphasize just a few points from this overview:

- the potential of these chemical and quantum computing devices is enormous;

- assuring that America is poised for leadership when these new technologies are ready for development is essential to our future,

- these areas have attracted some of best and brightest scientists, engineers and graduate students in the nation to work on these very exciting ideas, and - our support for this work must be stable, long term, and flexible to assure that this research will draw as needed on the traditional disciplines even while it creates new ones.


*******************

Article 611

Over the next few years, several spectacular theoretical advances were made in the field, including the discovery of a quantum algorithm for the exponential problem of integer factorization (on which modern public key cryptography depends), and quantum error correction (which in principle allows the arbitrarily precise control of quantum systems). Both of these achievements, although in retrospect compatible with existing scientific knowledge, profoundly shook many researcher's beliefs concerning what is and is not physically possible.Comparable progress on the all-important task of actually building quantum information processors has come rather more slowly, although many ingenious proposals how it might be done have been put forward, including:

- polarized photons controlled by optical networks

- ion traps holding linear arrays of single atoms (see figure from Wineland & Monroe at NIST above)

- optical lattices, i.e. optically confined neutral atoms

- quantum dots containing single unpaired electrons

- semiconductors, using both electron and nuclear spins

- superconductors, using both electric and magnetic quanta

- nuclear magnetic resonance on ensembles of molecules

One or more, or perhaps even some combination, of these ideas is likely to bear fruit in due course, but it is impossible for me to even begin to describe them in the space available here. For this reason, I will simply take the last item on this list, in which I personally have been deeply involved, as an example --- which will be shown to also illustrate certain features of molecular computing. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, or NMR, is widely used by chemists to determine the structures of molecules based on the interactions of their atomic nuclei with the electrons in chemical bonds. Each such nucleus can be thought of as a tiny bar magnet.


*******************

Article 612

Over the next few years, several spectacular theoretical advances were made in the field, including the discovery of a quantum algorithm for the exponential problem of integer factorization (on which modern public key cryptography depends), and quantum error correction (which in principle allows the arbitrarily precise control of quantum systems). Both of these achievements, although in retrospect compatible with existing scientific knowledge, profoundly shook many researcher's beliefs concerning what is and is not physically possible.Comparable progress on the all-important task of actually building quantum information processors has come rather more slowly, although many ingenious proposals how it might be done have been put forward, including:

- polarized photons controlled by optical networks

- ion traps holding linear arrays of single atoms (see figure from Wineland & Monroe at NIST above)

- optical lattices, i.e. optically confined neutral atoms

- quantum dots containing single unpaired electrons

- semiconductors, using both electron and nuclear spins

- superconductors, using both electric and magnetic quanta

- nuclear magnetic resonance on ensembles of molecules

One or more, or perhaps even some combination, of these ideas is likely to bear fruit in due course, but it is impossible for me to even begin to describe them in the space available here. For this reason, I will simply take the last item on this list, in which I personally have been deeply involved, as an example --- which will be shown to also illustrate certain features of molecular computing. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, or NMR, is widely used by chemists to determine the structures of molecules based on the interactions of their atomic nuclei with the electrons in chemical bonds. Each such nucleus can be thought of as a tiny bar magnet.


*******************

Article 613

Over the next few years, several spectacular theoretical advances were made in the field, including the discovery of a quantum algorithm for the exponential problem of integer factorization (on which modem public key cryptography depends), and quantum error correction (which in principle allows the arbitrarily precise control of quantum systems). Both of these achievements, although in retrospect compatible with existing scientific knowledge, profoundly shook many researcher's beliefs concerning what is and is not physically possible. Comparable progress on the all-important task of actually building quantum information processors has come rather more slowly, Although many ingenious proposals how it might be done have been put forward, including: - polarized photons controlled by optical networks - ion traps holding linear arrays of single atoms (see figure from-Wineland & Monroe at NIST above) - optical lattices, i.e. optically confined neutral atoms - quantum dots containing single unpaired electrons - semiconductors, using both electron and nuclear spins - superconductors, using both electric and magnetic quanta - nuclear magnetic resonance on ensembles of molecules One or more, or perhaps even some combination, of these ideas is likely to bear fruit in due course, but it is impossible for me to even begin to describe them in the space available here. For this reason, I will simply take the last item on this list, in which I personally have been deeply involved, as an example --- which will be shown to also illustrate certain features of molecular computing. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, or NMR, is widely used by chemists to determine the structures of molecules based on the interactions of their atomic nuclei with the electrons in chemical bonds. Each such nucleus can be thought of as a tiny bar magnet. 

*******************

Article 614

Its aim is to understand how certain fundamental laws of physics can be harnessed to dramatically improve how we transmit and process information. The exciting scientific opportunities offered by QIS are attracting the interest of a growing community of scientists and technologists, and are promoting unprecedented interactions across traditional disciplinary boundaries. Advances in QIS will become increasingly critical to our national competitiveness in information technology during the coming century. The information technology revolution of the past several decades has been driven by steady advances in the miniaturization of electronic circuitry on silicon chips, allowing performance to double roughly every 18 months ("Moore's law"). But in fewer than 20 years, this shrinkage will reach atomic dimensions, necessitating new approaches if progress is to continue at anything like the rate we have become used to. Accordingly, considerable thought and long-range planning are already being devoted to, the challenges of designing and fabricating devices at the atomic scale and getting them to work reliably, a field broadly known as nanotechnology. However, it has long been known that atoms and other tiny objects obey laws of quantum physics that in many respects defy common sense. For example, observing an atom disturbs its motion, while not observing it causes it to spread out and behave as if it were in several different places at the same time. Until about five years ago, such quantum effects were mostly regarded as a nuisance, causing small devices to be less reliable and more error-prone than their larger cousins. What is new, and what makes QIS a single coherent field despite spanning several traditional disciplines, is the realization that quantum effects are not just a nuisance, but in fact can be exploited to perform important and otherwise impossible information processing tasks. 

*******************

Article 615

The science and engineering behind these is some of the most exciting and challenging work today. New ideas, theories, processes and devices are being developed unlike any seen before. As just one example, understanding how the electrical properties of a single molecule change when it is flexed by another electrical charge is central to molecular computing; to understand the science as well as the engineering of building such devices we must draw on many scientific and engineering disciplines. The NSF is particularly well suited to support research in these areas. NSF focuses on basic research. Most of our support is for research at universities and we have many ways to support university researchers to work across disciplines, with industry researchers, and with researchers in other nations. NSF is the principal source of funds that support graduate training in science and engineering; the young people we support and train in these emerging technologies will become the faculty and industry researchers that the nation will rely on to advance and develop these new computing methods. And, of course, NSF also funds facilities that support the university research community and enable cooperation with industry. NSF's Initiatives in Information Technology Research and in Nanoscale Science and Engineering provide mechanisms to address the interdisciplinary research that these ideas require. In my comments today, I would like to address five general points. First is a brief overview of the science and engineering challenges and accomplishments to date. My colleagues at this hearing will be able to address this in greater detail. Then I will speak to four aspects of the Federal role in these exciting new areas: how the NSF is supporting and coordinating this research, multi-agency activities and coordination, the relationship of federally supported research with industry, and lastly, international activities in these areas. Silicon Chips and Moore's law; Beyond Silicon's Limits Since the invention of the silicon integrated circuit in 1961 to the present, the number of devices that can be place on a single silicon chip has roughly doubled every 12 to 18 months. This means that every ten years, the number of devices on chips increases about a hundred-fold. This is done by shrinking device sizes and is achieved by constant improvements in chemistry, photolithography, clean rooms, and other efforts. This doubling rate is known as Moore's law. For the computing industry, the shrinking devices and increasing density has enabled the information technology revolution through staggering increases in speed and functionality of computers accompanied by astonishing decreases in costs. We know that this cannot continue for long - the size of atoms is a very hard limit and very close in time. 

*******************

Article 616

Research Support Activities 38,444,000

Total, STRS 305,003,000

Within the amounts provided, the Committee approves the following increases: (1) $1,000,000 in the Manufacturing Engineering Program for the development of standards pertaining to the exchange of electronic data; (2) $2,000,000 in the Physics program to provide measurements, standards, and test methods for the development of advanced nanotechnologies; (3) $2,000,000 in the Computer Science and Applied Mathematics program to develop new measurements, test methods, and guidelines for the protection of the Nation's critical infrastructures. No funding is provided for Commerce Department expert review teams. Presidential Decision Directive #63 clearly suggests that every department and agency of the Federal Government shall be responsible for protecting its own critical infrastructure, especially its cyber-based systems. While the program is laudable, it is clearly not the responsibility of the Department of Commerce to provide computer security to other Federal agencies; and, (4) under the Wind Research Program, the Committee recommends $2,000,000 to continue funding an existing cooperative agreement between NIST and Texas Tech University.

Industrial Technology Services

Appropriations, 2000 $247,436,000



*******************

Article 617

Specific Conclusions. The specific conclusions of the SSP technology assessment were as follows:

Solar power generation. Progress in identifying and demonstration advanced power generation technologies has been significant. Among the most promising of these are ultra-low-mass, high-efficiency thin-film photovoltaic (PV) arrays; solar dynamic power generation using Brayton-cycle power conversion; a stretched Fresnel lens concentrator design which has already demonstrated 378 W/kg and over 300 W/sq.m in conjunction with triplejunction PV arrays; a "rainbow" assembly of five or more different PV cells covering a broad range of the solar spectrum, illuminated through prisms to split the spectrum appropriately, which has achieved a net efficiency of 39%; and quantum-dot (Q-Dot) PV arrays which, when developed, will employ quantum transport to cover 80% of the available solar spectrum. Prospects are also being explored for combining the stretched lens, rainbow, and Q-dot PV technologies to achieve near-100% coverage of the solar spectrum.

Wireless power transmission (WPT).

(1) Microwaves. The technology in this area is mature and well defined. Technical progress made during the SERT program has been primarily in defining the key interference issues and devising commensurate filter designs, and in developing phased-array antennas employing solid-state amplifiers based on high-temperature gallium nitride integrated circuit technology. Even if these developments are successful, however, the prospects are dim for obtaining regulatory approval of a high-power transmission system which has any possibility of interference with communications satellites and position-location systems operating from both geostationary and low Earth orbits.


*******************

Article 618

In addition to small- scale demonstrations of key technologies, scale models or pilot-plant demonstrations of SSP concepts would provide unique information in virtually all areas. Also, how much of the required demonstration work would be possible on the ground is an important question that should be addressed. Specific Conclusions. The specific conclusions of the SSP technology assessment were as follows: Solar power generation. Progress in identifying and demonstration advanced power generation technologies has been significant. Among the most promising of these are ultra-low-mass, high-efficiency thin-film photovoltaic (PV) arrays; solar dynamic power generation using Brayton-cycle power conversion; a stretched Fresnel lens concentrator design which has already demonstrated 378 W/kg and over 300 W/sq.m in conjunction with triple-junction PV arrays; a rainbow assembly of five or more different PV cells covering a broad range of the solar spectrum, illuminated through prisms to split the spectrum appropriately, which has achieved a net efficiency of 39%; and quantum-dot (Q-Dot) PV arrays which, when developed, will employ quantum transport to cover 80% of the available solar spectrum. Prospects are also being explored for combining the stretched lens, rainbow, and Q-dot PV technologies to achieve near-100% coverage of the solar spectrum. Wireless power transmission (WPT). (1) Microwaves. The technology in this area is mature and well defined. Technical progress made during the SERT program has been primarily in defining the key interference issues and devising commensurate filter designs, and in developing phased-array antennas employing solid-state amplifiers based on high-temperature gallium nitride integrated circuit technology. Even if these developments are successful, however, the prospects are dim for obtaining regulatory approval of a high-power transmission system which has any possibility of interference with communications satellites and position-location systems operating from both geostationary and low Earth orbits. (2) Lasers. One of the major new developments of the SERT program has been the emergence of laser power transmission as a viable option that complies with existing health regulations.

*******************

Article 619

I think that a lot of the concerns about Carnivore would be mitigated if this software technology were disclosed and made available to ISPs.

HATCH: Well, let's go to Professor...


CERF: But I have a lot of problems with that, because, you know, then you have a non-law enforcement agency, a private company being able to do whatever they want to do with people's knowledge and people's information. You made some interesting suggestions. I want to really look at those, because, you know, I don't know what the answer is here. All I can say is that I don't want to have 1984 in 2004. But we're already there. I mean, with nanotechnology coming out now, if you read Kurzweil's book, it's enough to scare the living daylights out of every one of us. But this is a big -- and read Bill Joy's article. My gosh, I mean, it's mind-boggling.


LEAHY: But (inaudible) can do this now. I mean, the ISPs can do this now. They can step through and get most of this...



*******************

Article 620

The Committee recommendation provides $241,000,000 to continue the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS), including $221,900,000 for construction and $19,100,000 for other activities related to the project. The amount represents a $121,900,000 increase over current year construction funding. The Committee recognizes the importance the SNS offers in advancing the frontiers of science and technology and the opportunities it will provide for future scientific and industrial research and development for the United States. The design and construction of this next-generation, accelerator-based, neutron scattering facility, located at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, is a collaborative effort involving six DOE national laboratories (Argonne, Brookhaven, Jefferson, Lawrence Berkeley, Los Alamos, and Oak Ridge). Due to the allocated budget constraints, the Committee is unable to provide the full budget request. The Committee endorses and supports the SNS as it enters the construction phase and hopes additional resources can be made available so as to limit any impact on the project's schedule and cost.

Nanotechnology. The Committee strongly supports the Department's role in the government-wide investment in nanotechnology and recognizes it may revolutionize the ability to craft highly specialized materials with unique properties. The Department has requested an increase of $36,140,000 over the current year appropriation for new initiatives in this areas. Due to severe budget constraints, the Committee recommendation provides only $20,140,000 for new initiatives in nanoscale science, engineering, and technology research, a reduction of $16,000,000 from the request, but a significant increase over last year. The reductions in nanotechnology research are taken from the following sub accounts: $8,000,000 from materials sciences; $7,000,000 from chemical sciences; and $1,000,000 from engineering and geosciences.

Energy biosciences. Due to severe budget constraints, the Committee recommendation does not provide funding for the $2,440,000 in new research initiatives for microbial cell research, as funding is already provided under biological and environmental research. other energy research programs

Appropriations, 2000 $166,060,000

Budget estimate, 2001 211,362,000

House allowance 171,930,000

Committee recommendation 174,900,000


*******************

Article 621

While we as a society are becoming citizens of all types of information technology, we are beginning to test the bounds of what material science can provide. Many academic and corporate researchers are predicting that to continue our 25 to 30% yearly reduction in cost, while keeping high quality standards, will require very significant breakthroughs in material science. Our society expects this to happen. It will happen if we continue to fund long term basic research. If we don't, we will hit a wall. And then we will suffer the consequences.

Basic research is needed in area's such as nanotechnologies, biologically computing, and advanced semi-conductor and optical technologies.

Let me now share with you some of the conclusions of the PITAC final report, dated February, 1999"After careful review of the Federal programs, however, this Committee has concluded that Federal support for research in information technology is dangerously inadequate. Research programs intended to maintain the flow of new ideas in information technology are turning away large numbers of excellent proposals. In addition, current support is taking a short-term focus, looking for immediate returns, rather than investigating high-risk, long-term technologies. Significant new research on computers and communication systems serve our needs while protecting us from catastrophic failures of the complex systems that now underpin our transportation, defense, business, finance and healthcare infrastructures. The current Federal program is inadequate to start necessary new centers and research programs. Computers on university campuses and other civilian research facilities are falling rapidly behind the state of the art. The end result is that critical problems are going unsolved and we are endangering the flow of ideas that have fueled the information economy.


*******************

Article 622

At MIT we have seen and measured the results of the fraction of these investments that flowed through MIT's research and teaching laboratories. According to a 1997 report by BankBoston, now only a bit dated, graduates and faculty of MIT alone have started more than 4,000 companies which provide 1.1 million jobs. Just six years ago these jobs accounted for one of every 170 jobs in the US. In 1994, these companies accounted for $232 billion in sales. About 90 percent of these companies were founded in the past 50 years, during the lifetime of NSF. If this economic activity were formed into a single nation, it would be the 24th largest economy in the world. (Attachment.)

The technologies that fuel today's economy came from university laboratories ten and twenty years ago. Tomorrow's new economy is in our laboratories today in emerging fields such as nanotechnology, optical communications, biocomputing,materials, robotics, genomics, and information technology. The Foundation's leadership in the administration's initiatives in nanotechnology, information technology, and biocomplexity are crucial seeds of our future economy. As chair of the PCAST task force that reviewed the National Nanotechnology Initiative, I examined the initiative in detail. It encompasses emerging science and technology that may well play as strong a role in our future economy as has computer science in our current economy. In my view, it is essential that U.S. scientists, engineers, and students gain and sustain a commanding lead in nanoscaie research and development.

Education Is the Key to Our Future

Third, education is the key to our future. NSF's leadership in science and mathematics education from K-12 through the graduate level is critically important. We are failing in our efforts to attract greater numbers of U.S. citizens, especially minorities and women, into careers in science, mathematics, and engineering. These numbers are declining, despite the irony that our society is increasingly dependent on strength and innovation in science and technology. NSF's graduate fellowship program is a key element of our education investment portfolio. It must be strengthened to make advanced scientific and engineering education attractive to today's bright young men and women. It merits the continued strong support of Congress. Stipends and the cost-of-education allowance are not keeping pace with the marketplace and the costs of graduate education.


*******************

Article 623

Fortunately, through the excellent efforts of the NSF EPSCOR Office, the Program Officers in CISE, and perhaps a little noise from our states and Members of Congress, there is now at least one high-speed connection in each state, including all the EPSCOR states. Furthermore, the EPSCOR states have been included in a number of the associated programs, such as development of a national supercomputing grid, new applications and uses of the network, and distance education.

We currently have many of the same concerns that we had over networking - that is, mainly exclusion - with other new NSF initiatives such as nanotechnology, biodiversity, information technology, workforce training and development. These new initiatives are important for our nation's research strength and to future economic vitality and growth. In a mobile society and global economy that is highly dependent upon science and technology, no state can afford to be left behind in these important endeavors.

EPSCOR has provided us a means of participating in the advanced networking and computing field as I have already described, in the vBNS, the Next Generation Internet, and the PACI program. EPSCOR can also help us ensure, through the research infrastructure improvement awards and co-funding, that all states have an opportunity todevelop these new fields. This program is vitally important to the economy of each of our states and especially to our young people who live therein. Despite increased mobility, the vast majority of students still attend college within 100 miles of home.


*******************

Article 624

That motto has just as much meaning today - in the 21st century - as it did in 1792, in an era before the advent of the steam engine. Individual scientists and engineers - supported by NSF and other federal agencies - are using their talent and their freedom to create, discover, and innovate.

Increasingly these scientists and engineers, and perhaps even more important their students - are also making the jump to the private sector.

This transfer to the private sector of people - first supported by NSF at universities - should be viewed as the ultimate success of technology transfer. These talented scientists and engineers are part of the new wave of entrepreneurs creating remarkable wealth in areas like information technology, biotechnology, and now in nanotechnology.

Nanotechnology - Mr. Chairman - is a new, emerging field where scientists and engineers are beginning to manipulate matter at the atomic level. Taking a cue from biology, researchers across disciplines are beginning to create nanostructures smaller than human cells.

This "Lilliputian' technology has the potential to revolutionize nearly every facet of our economy and our lives. For example: Researchers envision building electronic circuits from the bottom- up, starting at the molecular level. In the future researchers may be building molecular computers the size of a tear drop with the power of today's fastest supercomputers. Combining microelectronics and neural research holds great promise for developing prosthetic devices for artificial limbs. Researchers are creating nanochips where nerve axons can regrow through the tiny grate in the center a silicon membrane. These chips then modify and distribute the nerve impulses, simulating the electrical activity of a normal nerve synapse. Researchers are already developing micromachined needles with sharp tips of less than a micrometer across. Such tiny needle tips can pierce the skin easily and without pair:, a novel new method of drug delivery.

There are many more innovations - most occurring in the past year or so. We are also already seeing a substantial amount of industry- university partnerships in nanoscaie science and engineering. Industry, as well as other federal agencies like NASA, DoE and DoD will be looking to our universities for the scientists and engineers skilled in nanotechnology. That is why I cannot overstate the importance of NSF's investment.

The transfer of scientists and engineers to the private sector can probably best be seen in the Information Technology sector. Everyday we read a news story touting the latest Internet whiz kid or biotechnology IPO. David Ignatius - in a recent column in the Washington Post- wrote about a 27-year old Stanford graduate student with a smart business plan and a hot Internet search engine with the strange name of Google.

*******************

Article 625

A few of NSF's contributions illustrate the importance of our investment in basic research and development:

* The Internet--Over the past decade, NSF has transformed the Internet from a tool used by a handful of researchers at the Department of Defense to the backbone of this Nation's university research infrastructure. Today the Internet is on the verge of becoming the Nation's commercial marketplace.

* Nanotechnology and "Thin Film"-- 50 years ago scientists developed the transistor and ushered in the information revolution. Today 3 million transistors can fit on a chip no larger than the first fingernail-sized individual transistor. NSF's investments in nanotechnology and "thin films" are expected to generate a further 1,000fold reduction in size for semiconductor devices with eventual cost-savings of a similar magnitude.

* Genetics-- A great deal of attention is paid to the effort conducted by the NIH to map the Human Genome. What is often overlooked; however, is the critical role played by NSF in supporting the basic research that leads to the breakthroughs for which NIH justly receives so much credit. Research supported by NSF was key to the development of the polymerase chain reaction and a great deal of the technology used for sequencing.

* Magnetic Resonance Imaging--MRI technology is widely utilized to diagnose a wide array of illnesses. The development of this technology was made possible by combining information gained through the study of the spin characteristics of basic matter, research in mathematics, and high flux magnets. The Next Generation Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Imager, currently under construction, will allow for the identification of the 3-dimensional structures of the 100,000 proteins whose genes are being sequenced by the HGP.

* Buckeyballs--One of the most exciting recent discoveries in the world of material science was the discovery of carbon-60. Although this occurs in nature, its discovery (which one the researchers a Nobel prize) was the product of work by astronomers. This in turn led to the discovery of the nanotube which has been found to be 100 times stronger than steel and a fraction of the weight. Nanotubes may produce cars that weigh no more than 100 pounds.

* CD Players--CD players rely on data compression algorithms that were developed using an NSF grant. These algorithms were first used in the transmission of satellite data and now provide the foundation for new developments in data storage.


*******************

Article 626

The portfolio of Federal investment in science and engineering is seriously imbalanced. - Our unprecedented economic prosperity stems from past investments in science, mathematics, and engineering. - Education is the key to our future. Imbalanced Investment in Science and Engineering First, our investment portfolio in science and engineering is becoming seriously imbalanced. For thirty years, we have steadily strengthened our investment in the life sciences. It has more than tripled in real dollars. During this same period, support for the physical sciences and engineering has remained flat; it has not grown at all. (Attachment.) This year Congress is again poised to increase funding for NIH by about 15 percent; the increment alone equals more than half of NSF's total budget request. materials, robotics, genomics, and information technology. The Foundation's leadership in the administration's initiatives in nanotechnology, information technology, and biocomplexity are crucial seeds of our future economy. As chair of the PCAST task force that reviewed the National Nanotechnology Initiative, I examined the initiative in detail. It encompasses emerging science and technology that may well play as strong a role in our future economy as has computer science in our current economy. In my view, it is essential that U.S. scientists, engineers, and students gain and sustain a commanding lead in nanoscale research and development. Education Is the Key to Our Future Third, education is the key to our future. NSF's leadership in science and mathematics education from K-12 through the graduate level is critically important. We are failing in our efforts to attract greater numbers of U.S. citizens, especially minorities and women, into careers in science, mathematics, and engineering. These numbers are declining, despite the irony that our society is increasingly dependent on strength and innovation in science and technology. NSF's graduate fellowship program is a key element of our education investment portfolio. It must be strengthened to make advanced scientific and engineering education attractive to today's bright young men and women. 

*******************

Article 627

In fact, they are really national priorities: Information Technology Research, Biocomplexity, 21 at Century Workforce and the emergent National Nanoscale Science and Engineering Initiative. Each initiative integrates research across the disciplines of science, engineering and mathematics and fosters strong connections to education at all levels. Solving many of the challenges facing our society will require more than individual discoveries. It will require the integration of knowledge from all disciplines. In addition to our initiatives, nearly half our requested increase will support what we call the core activities. It will help us with the biggest challenge: to strengthen the core disciplines of science and engineering while moving forward in interdisciplinary areas It was just fifty years ago - May 10th , 1950 to be exact - that President Truman signed S. 247, the act that established the NSF. Our nation's commitment to science, engineering and education did not begin in 1950. This commitment can be seen from the very beginning of the nation. The motto on America's first coin for example - minted in 1792 - read: Liberty: Parent of Science and Industry. That motto has just as much meaning today - in the 21'5t century - as it did in 1792, in an era before the advent of the steam engine. Individual scientists and engineers - supported by NSF and other federal agencies - are using their talent and their freedom to create, discover, and innovate. Increasingly these scientists and engineers, and perhaps even more important their students - are also making the jump to the private sector. This transfer to the private sector of people - first supported by NSF at universities - should be viewed as the ultimate success of technology transfer. These talented scientists and engineers are part of the new wave of entrepreneurs creating remarkable wealth in areas like information technology, biotechnology, and now in nanotechnology. Nanotechnology - Mr. Chairman - is a new, emerging field where scientists and engineers are beginning to manipulate matter at the atomic level. Taking a cue from biology, researchers across disciplines are beginning to create nanostructures smaller than human cells. This "Lilliputian" technology has the potential to revolutionize nearly every facet of our economy and our lives. For example: - Researchers envision building electronic circuits from the bottom-up, starting at the molecular level. In the future researchers may be building molecular computers the size of a tear drop with the power of today's fastest supercomputers. - Combining microelectronics and neural research holds great promise for developing prosthetic devices for artificial limbs. Researchers are creating nanochips where nerve axons can regrow through the tiny grate in the center a silicon membrane. These chips then modify and distribute the nerve impulses, simulating the electrical activity of a normal nerve synapse. - Researchers are already developing micromachined needles with sharp tips of less than a micrometer across. Such tiny needle tips can pierce the skin easily and without pain-a novel new method of drug delivery. There are many more innovations - most occurring in the past year or so. We are also already seeing a substantial amount of industry-university partnerships in nanoscale science and engineering. Industry, as well as other federal agencies like NASA, DoE and DoD will be looking to our universities for the scientists and engineers skilled in nanotechnology. That is why I cannot overstate the importance of NSF's investment. The transfer of scientists and engineers to the private sector can probably best be seen in the Information Technology sector. Everyday we read a news story touting the latest Internet whiz kid or biotechnology IPO. David Ignatius - in a recent column in the Washington Post - wrote about a 27-year old Stanford graduate student with a smart business plan and a hot Internet search engine with the strange name of Google. The offbeat name is actually a reference to the complex math - actually a series of mathematical algorithms - that makes the search engine work. It involves over half a billion variables in its complex calculations. 

*******************

Article 628

A recent review of American industrial patent applications revealed that the Government or nonprofit foundations supported 75 percent of the main papers cited as the foundation for new industrial innovation. A few of NSFs contributions illustrate the importance of our investment in basic research and development: The Internet--Over the past decade, NSF has transformed the Internet from a tool used by a handful of researchers at the Department of Defense to the backbone of this Nation's university research infrastructure. Today the Internet is on the verge of becoming the Nation's commercial marketplace. Nanotechnology and "Thin Film- 50 years ago scientists developed the transistor and ushered in the information revolution. Today 3 million transistors can fit on a chip no larger than the first fingernail-sized individual transistor. NSF's investments in nanotechnology and "thin films are expected to generate a further 1,000- fold reduction in size for semiconductor devices with eventual cost-savings of a similar magnitude. Genetics-- A great deal of attention is paid to the effort conducted by the NIH to map the Human Genome. What is often overlooked; however, is the critical role played by NSF in supporting the basic research that leads to the breakthroughs for which NIH justly receives so much credit. Research supported by NSF was key to the development of the polymerase chain reaction and a great deal of the technology used for sequencing. Magnetic Resonance Imaging--MRI technology is widely utilized to diagnose a wide array of illnesses. The development of this technology was made possible by combining information gained through the study of the spin characteristics of basic matter, research in mathematics, and high flux magnets. The Next Generation Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Imager, currently under construction, will allow for the identification of the 3- dimensional structures of the 100,000 proteins whose genes are being sequenced by the HGP. Buckeyballs--One of the most exciting recent discoveries in the world of material science was the discovery of carbon-60. Although this occurs in nature, its discovery (which one the researchers a Nobel prize) was the product of work by astronomers. This in turn led to the discovery of the nanotube which has been found to be 100 times stronger than steel and attraction of the weight. Nanotubes may produce cars that weigh no more than 100 pounds. CD Players--CD players rely on data compression algorithms that were developed using an NSF grant. These algorithms were first used in the transmission of satellite data and now provide the foundation for new developments in data storage. Jet Printers-- The mathematical equations that describe the behavior of fluid under pressure provided the foundation for developing the ink jet printer. Plant Genome--Research into the genome of a flower plant with no previous commercial value, led to the discovery of ways to increase crop yields, the production of plants with seeds having lower polyunsaturated fats and to the development of crops that produce a biodegradable plastic. Artificial Retina--Researchers at North Carolina State University have designed a computer chip that may pave the way for creation of an artificial retina. Problems with bio-compatibility have been solved by researchers at Stanford who developed a synthetic cell membrane that adheres to both living cells and silicon chips. 

*******************

Article 629

The early announcements mentioned connecting up to 100 institutions to the new network, but in the first three competitions, of the more than 70 awards granted only one went to an EPSCoR state. Almost one-third of the country was again left out of a major program that was likely to impact research competitiveness for many years to come. Furthermore, it was this same one-third of the country - the EPSCoR states and universities - which needed this infrastructure most and which perhaps stood to gain more than others because of geographic isolation. Fortunately, through the excellent efforts of the NSF EPSCoR Office, the Program Officers in CISE, and perhaps a little noise from our states and Members of Congress, there is now at least one high-speed connection in each state, including all the EPSCoR states. Furthermore, the EPSCoR states have been included in a number of the associated programs, such as development of a national supercomputing grid, new applications and uses of the network, and distance education. We currently have many of the same concerns that we had over networking - that is, mainly exclusion - with other new NSF initiatives such as nanotechnology, biodiversity, information technology, workforce training and development. These new initiatives are important for our nation's research strength and to future economic vitality and growth. In a mobile society and global economy that is highly dependent upon science and technology, no state can afford to be left behind in these important endeavors. EPSCoR has provided us a means of participating in the advanced networking and computing field as I have already described, in the vBNS, the Next Generation Internet, and the PACI program. EPSCoR can also help us ensure, through the research infrastructure improvement awards and co-funding, that all states have an opportunity to develop these new fields. This program is vitally important to the economy of each of our states and especially to our young people who live therein.

*******************

Article 630

MR. LEW: I think that we have proven over the last number of years that investments in the life sciences, primarily through the National Institutes of Health, is very, very much in the interest of the American people. There are enormous opportunities for breakthroughs that are being funded. And I think we have also seen over the last number of years that that's not the only area of research that needs to be well-funded, that in order to keep making breakthroughs in NIH research, we need to continue to focus on basic research, on the kinds of things that the National Science Foundation supports in terms of basic science and even mathematics.

We have put forward proposals that have not been well-funded so far in the appropriations process. In the area of NSF, the House is about a half a billion dollars below the funding levels that we've requested. And let me just give you one example of what would be lost at the lower funding level.

Nanotechnology sounds like something that's almost science fiction. It's a word that's easy to think is not a real tangible policy. Well, what nanotechnology means to the average citizen is, Will it be able to identify a cancer when it's one cell large?

It's the kind of breakthrough that will open doors to science and health research that are closed if we don't invest in nanotechnology. With a surplus and a time of economic well-being in the country we have the ability, and I would say we have the obligation, to invest in that kind of forward-looking research. That's why the president put those proposals forward, it's why we're fighting very hard as the Congress considers our budget request for those priorities. We're going to stick to our guns, and we're going to keep insisting on better funding in these areas, because we believe it's very important.

Q Jack, I wonder if we could just broaden that. I mean, you said the supplemental gives you some cause for hope especially. But I think, you know, looking at some of the raw numbers, it looks that they are really some vast differences on a number of fronts; one is Land Legacy or (market ?) trading -- trading pork bellies on the Internet, a whole host of things. I'm wondering does this -- just sort of where the numbers are right now, give you particular cause for alarm, and are there particular programs you think might be especially sticky in the fall?


*******************

Article 631

The bill also contains inadequate funding levels for basic science research and an anti-environmental rider related to the Kyoto Protocol. An amendment (Roll Call No. 2) was offered to strike language in the report that the minority considered too restrictive on the ability of the government to implement programs and initiatives authorized under current U.S. laws. The escalating emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere is an environmental issue that demands federal involvement. The language in the report to which we object would instruct the Department of Energy to refrain from working on any authorized programs or initiatives designed to improve our environment or reduce greenhouse gas emissions if similar measures or methods are called for in any Kyoto Protocol document. The report language is not acceptable to the minority.

The funding levels for basic science research are inadequate to advance scientific endeavors in which the government should be investing. In particular, nanotechnology research (the manipulation of matter on the atomic and molecular levels) represents a high-payoff field with potential benefits rivaling those of the integrated circuit chip. The bill fails to support the President's budget request for nanotechnology, advanced supercomputer research, spallation neutron source, renewable energy research, and other important scientific initiatives.

We would also note our continued opposition to the unrealistic and inadequate Congressional Budget Resolution and the 302(b) allocations provided to the committee. The funding levels contained in the bill do not provide the appropriate level of investment needed for the critical national programs encompassed in the bill.


*******************

Article 632

What can we do with carbon? Everything. Already, we rely every day on various forms of carbon, mostly in ways we seldom pay attention to. Carbon purifies air and water. Carbon lubricates. Carbon helps make steel and aluminum. Carbon is in our tires. Carbon rods are in batteries; carbon "brushes" help electric motors work. Carbon is the invisible workhorse of our daily lives. But with our new century comes new and exciting roles for carbon.

Carbon fibers are stronger than steel, lighter than aluminum, and corrosion-proof. Developing the technology to make carbon fibers at low cost will kick off the next revolution in industry, even more impressive than the way silicon technology revolutionized electronics. Carbon foams are a third the weight of aluminum and ten times as good at dissipating heat. "Pyrolytic" carbon has a role as heart valves and other replacement body parts. The new world of carbon nanotubes has wide horizons, with promising applications from wires only one molecule thick to light-weight, high-capacity storage of hydrogen. Carbon is emerging from its behind-the-scenes role as the invisible workhorse to take center stage as the star of 21st century technology.

Where can we get these new carbon materials? By turning to the oldest and richest source of carbon of all--coal. Coal is a carbon material; most coals contain 80 to 95% carbon (neglecting the ash residue). Most high-tech carbon materials are essentially 100% carbon. The challenge is to develop the technologies for making these new materials from our coals. The potential economic payoff is huge. A valuable coal might sell for $50, and a high-tech carbon material also for $50--but the coal is $50 per ton, and the carbon is $50 per pound.


*******************

Article 633

To the best of my knowledge, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 was our last serious attempt to have something resembling a national energy policy. Here, I address some issues on carbon products from coal; I will later touch on chemical intermediates. What can we do with carbon? Everything. Already, we rely every day on various forms of carbon, mostly in ways we seldom pay attention to. Carbon purifies air and water. Carbon lubricates. Carbon helps make steel and aluminum. Carbon is in our tires. Carbon rods are in batteries; carbon "brushes" help electric motors work. Carbon is the invisible workhorse of our daily lives. But with our new century comes new and exciting roles for carbon. Carbon fibers are stronger than steel, lighter than aluminum, and corrosion-proof. Developing the technology to make carbon fibers at low cost will kick off the next revolution in industry, even more impressive than the way silicon technology revolutionized electronics. Carbon foams are a third the weight of aluminum and ten times as good at dissipating heat. "Pyrolytic" carbon has a role as heart valves and other replacement body parts. The new world of carbon nanotubes has wide horizons, with promising applications from wires only one molecule thick to light-weight, high-capacity storage of hydrogen. Carbon is emerging from its behind-the-scenes role as the invisible workhorse to take center stage as the star of 21st century technology. Where can we get these new carbon materials? By turning to the oldest and richest source of carbon of all-coal. Coal is a carbon material; most coals contain 80 to 95% carbon (neglecting the ash residue). Most high-tech carbon materials are essentially 100% carbon. The challenge is to develop the technologies for making these new materials from our coals. The potential economic payoff is huge. A valuable coal might sell for $50, and a high-tech carbon material also for $50-but the coal is $50 per ton, and the carbon is $50perpound. Developing premium carbon products from coal is an initiative that is in the direct national interest. Potential advantages for our nation include (but are certainly not limited to) decreasing national reliance on imported petroleum and petroleum products, improving fuel efficiency and reducing vehicle exhaust emissions, and reducing total carbon dioxide emissions. Since all coals are carbon-rich solids, they are potential starting materials for other, higher value materials via conversion to new carbon-based solids. Activated carbons are used mainly as adsorbents for liquid- and gas-phase applications. The amount of coals used worldwide for producing activated carbons is about 200,000 tons per year. This represents nearly half of the world's annual production of activated carbons from all sources. 

*******************

Article 634

Electro-Magnetic Nanopulse +2,500

MEMS +1,500

MEMS for Rolling Element Bearings +1,500

MEMS sensors for Radionuclides Detection and Ordnance Monitoring (Note: The Committee recommends $9,500,000 only for Radionuclides Detection and Ordnance Monitoring.) +9,500

Quantum-Dot Cellular Automata Nanoscience and Technology Research +4,000

Remote Sensing +6,000

Technology Insertion Demonstration (SEI) +2,000

Desert Environmental Research: (Note: The Committee recommends an increase of $4,000,000 only for a University based GIS program using sensor technology, line distance sampling, and spatial analysis techniques to monitor desert tortoise population related to potential expansion of the Fort Irwin National Training Center.) +4,000

Spin Electronics (Note: The Committee transfers $10,000,000 from the Nanotechnology Initiative to PE 601103E for Spin electronics programs.) 10,000

Bioengineering/Nanotechnology Research (Note: Only to establish a program to develop interdisciplinary research and development for bioengineering in advanced medicine, based on nanotechnology and the new synthetic capabilities afforded by molecular self-assembly such as the synthesis of mushroom nanostructures and DNA-like ribbon nanostructures and the discovery of key features of the self-assembly of the cell's cytoskeleton, to address medical problems of concern for national security such as improved treatment for battlefield wounds and better defense against biological warfare.) +5,000

INFORMATION ASSURANCE +3,000


*******************

Article 635

 PRESIDENT CLINTON: Good afternoon. Mr. Prime Minister, Professor Cintolina (sp), Minister Gago (sp), Doctor Vargas (sp), ladies and gentlemen. I have just had a lot of fun touring this science center, but the meaning here of what is being done goes beyond the simple joy of learning. From the outermost reaches of space to the darkest depths of the ocean, from the mysteries of nanotechnology to the miracles of the human genome, men and women are gathering knowledge, at a faster pace than ever before, that will have the most profound impacts, especially on the way the young people in this audience live.

Knowledge is being more widely applied and more quickly disseminated than ever before, thanks in no small measure to the Internet and, therefore, universal education and universal access torun p: pgm multi.pgm technology are more important than ever before. 

Today, I applaud the scientific work being done in Portugal and the efforts of Prime Minister Guterres and Minister Gallo (sp) to train the next generation of scientists, engineers, doctors and astronauts, as well as to close the digital divide, to make sure all the children of this nation have the tools they need to match the Information Age.

*******************

Article 636

CLINTON: Good afternoon.


Mr. Prime Minister, Professor Kintolena (ph), Minister Gago (ph), Dr. Vargas (ph), ladies and gentlemen, I have just had a lot of fun touring this science center. But the meaning here of what is being done goes beyond the simple joy of learning. From the outermost reaches of space to the darkest depths of the ocean, from the mysteries of nanotechnology to the miracles of the human genome, men and women are gathering knowledge at a faster pace than ever before that will have the most profound impacts, especially on the way the young people in this audience live.


Knowledge is being more widely applied and more quickly disseminated than ever before, thanks in no small measure to the Internet and, therefore, universal education and universal access to technology are more important than ever before.


*******************

Article 637

G6+4,000

Competitive Sustainment Savings Program

6,000

G6+6,000

Silicon-Based Nanostructures

3,000

G6+3,000

Strategic Environmental Research Program

51,357

51,557

G6+200

DoD Pollution Prevention Partnership Program


*******************

Article 638

In addition, the bill reduces funding for the Russian- American Observation Satellite (RAMOS) program, a cooperative technology demonstration project intended to enhance the ability to detect, characterize, and track theater range missiles that could be used against either country. I strongly believe that it is in our national security interest that Russian early warning capabilities be accurate, reliable, and effective. Misunderstandings or misperceptions of either nuclear power when under missile attack could lead to unanticipated and unintended conflict escalation that could decimate both countries. It's in our essential national interest, therefore, to work cooperatively to minimize the risk of such mistakes. In addition, since this program was initially authorized at the highest levels of both governments, it is important as a matter of building confidence and trust to support the original agreement underlying this program. The reduced RAMOS program contained in the bill calls for a restructured program that significantly reduces the benefits to both countries from those originally anticipated when the program was first agree to.

I am also disappointed to note that, although the bill contains substantial funding in support of the Department of Energy's Stockpile Stewardship Program, it does not contain certain key investments needed to ensure the future effectiveness of that program. As a strong supporter of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, I believe that in order to achieve the non- proliferation goals of that international agreement, key investments must be made now in order to optimize our confidence in the nation's nuclear stockpile for the foreseeable future. The President's budget, for example, requested only a modest amount for the Microsystems and Engineering Sciences Application (MESA) project, that would invest in cutting edge nanotechnology research that would incorporate advanced microelectronic technologies into the refurbishment and sustainment of our nuclear stockpile. I believe significantly more funding is needed now in order to ensure that we have that capability in the future so that we will be more confident of the reliability of our nuclear stockpile in the absence of testing nuclear weapons. The bill does contains no additional funding beyond the requested level for this high priority effort needed to support the nation's non-proliferation goals while meeting nuclear stockpile reliability requirements.

I am particularly concerned that the bill includes provisions restricting the authority of the Secretary of Energy to manage his own department by precluding him from directing any reorganization, consolidation, alteration, or other adjustments to components within the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). The NNSA, although established as a "semi-autonomous agency" within the Department of Energy, is still subject to the Secretary's authority under the legislation approved last year. Legislation contained in this year's bill would set a dangerous precedent that empowers the Congress to restrict cabinet members' authority in ways that could preclude greater efficiency or modernization needed to keep pace with changing political, economic, or technological environments. I urge my colleagues to reconsider this provision during the remaining steps in the legislative cycle.


*******************

Article 639

In addition, the bill reduces funding for the Russian- American Observation Satellite (RAMOS) program, a cooperative technology demonstration project intended to enhance the ability to detect, characterize, and track theater range missiles that could be used against either country. I strongly believe that it is in our national security interest that Russian early warning capabilities be accurate, reliable, and effective. Misunderstandings or misperceptions of either nuclear power when under missile attack could lead to unanticipated and unintended conflict escalation that could decimate both countries. It's in our essential national interest, therefore, to work cooperatively to minimize the risk of such mistakes. In addition, since this program was initially authorized at the highest levels of both governments, it is important as a matter of building confidence and trust to support the original agreement underlying this program. The reduced RAMOS program contained in the bill calls for a restructured program that significantly reduces the benefits to both countries from those originally anticipated when the program was first agree to.

I am also disappointed to note that, although the bill contains substantial funding in support of the Department of Energy's Stockpile Stewardship Program, it does not contain certain key investments needed to ensure the future effectiveness of that program. As a strong supporter of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, I believe that in order to achieve the non- proliferation goals of that international agreement, key investments must be made now in order to optimize our confidence in the nation's nuclear stockpile for the foreseeable future. The President's budget, for example, requested only a modest amount for the Microsystems and Engineering Sciences Application (MESA) project, that would invest in cutting edge nanotechnology research that would incorporate advanced microelectronic technologies into the refurbishment and sustainment of our nuclear stockpile. I believe significantly more funding is needed now in order to ensure that we have that capability in the future so that we will be more confident of the reliability of our nuclear stockpile in the absence of testing nuclear weapons. The bill does contains no additional funding beyond the requested level for this high priority effort needed to support the nation's non-proliferation goals while meeting nuclear stockpile reliability requirements.

I am particularly concerned that the bill includes provisions restricting the authority of the Secretary of Energy to manage his own department by precluding him from directing any reorganization, consolidation, alteration, or other adjustments to components within the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). The NNSA, although established as a "semi-autonomous agency" within the Department of Energy, is still subject to the Secretary's authority under the legislation approved last year. Legislation contained in this year's bill would set a dangerous precedent that empowers the Congress to restrict cabinet members' authority in ways that could preclude greater efficiency or modernization needed to keep pace with changing political, economic, or technological environments. I urge my colleagues to reconsider this provision during the remaining steps in the legislative cycle.


*******************

Article 640

Fully one-half of the Foundation's budget request is for "core support" to grow the knowledge base. This takes time and requires a distribution of resources across a spectrum of disciplines, opportunities, and performing institutions. The Foundation continues to seek ways to increase the average dollar amount and duration of research grants. This would bring needed continuity to investigators' research programs and the support of graduate students.

The other half of the request identifies specific priorities representing a 20 percent increase within the Foundation's research and related activities account and a 48 percent increase in major research equipment. These increases are appropriately bold for an "investment" budget: Information Technology Research will push the frontiers of high-end computing to expand our computer architecture, storage and retrieval, and network. The Terascale Computing System program will make supercomputing accessible to scientists and engineers across the Nation. And to better understand the social effects of those technologies, a research agenda on ethical, legal, education, and workforce issues will be supported across disciplines and cultures, including the use of technology in marketing goods and services in the global economy. Like Information Technology Research, Nanoscaie Science and Engineering is an Administration multi-agency initiative that NSF will lead. Nanometer scale - that is, one billionth of a meter to several hundred billionths - enables us to work at the atomic and molecular levels. Such manipulations create boundless possibilities for design of materials, manufacturing, electronics, computer simulations and processes in the environment are virtually boundless. The National Nanofabrication Users Network, university-based research hubs, and small business will all participate in the nanotechnology revolution. Biocomplexity in the Environment is an ambitious program to integrate our understanding of dynamic systems ranging from simple organisms to whole ecosystems, from the transmission of waterborne contaminants to global climate change. Construction of a National Ecological Observatory Network, or NEON, will advance exploration of the biology of the planet pole-to-pole.

I am proud to add that the Board recently issued a report on Environmental Science and Engineering for the 21st Century <www.nsf.gov/nsb/documents> that calls for a significant increase in resources for environmental research, education, assessment, and infrastructure. The President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology and the National Science and Technology Council has endorsed the report. The intellectual maturity of environmental research makes the timing right to ramp up and sustain a programmatic thrust across agencies. In the Board's view, the environmental arena warrants a five-year growth plan that would more than double NSF's current portfolio. The FY 2001 budget request begins this quest.


*******************

Article 641

For the coming fiscal year, the NSF requests $4.57 billion dollars. This represents a much needed increase - 17.3% overall -- over $675 million above the current level. This investment is part of the President's 21st Century Research Fund for America, and it is all about keeping the United States at the leading edge of learning and discovery. 

The headliners in NSF's 2001 request are four focused, multidisciplinary initiatives. In fact, they are really national priorities: Information Technology Research, Biocomplexity, 21 st Century Workforce and the emergent National Nanoscale Science and Engineering Initiative.

Each initiative integrates research across the disciplines of science, engineering and mathematics. Solving many of the challenges facing our society will require more than individual discoveries. It will require the integration of knowledge from all disciplines.



*******************

Article 642

Science & Technology Initiative

The budget request includes a $2.9 billion Science and Technology Initiative directed towards national goals such as world leadership in science and technology and long-term economic growth and prosperity. This S&T Initiative is contained within the 21st Century Research Fund, which ensures effective integration of our science and technology investments. The Research Fund grows by 7% in FY 2001, to a total of $42.9 billion.

These investments will ensure that science and technology will continue to fuel economic growth and allow Americans to lead longer, healthier lives. These investments also will enable America to continue to lead in the 21st century by increasing support in all scientific and engineering disciplines, including biomedical research, nanotechnology, information technology, clean energy, and university- based research. Specifically, this infusion of funds will enable researchers to tackle important scientific and technological challenges, and will lead to: American prosperity in the 21st Century: With rapid growth, increased productivity and rising standards of living, the U.S. economy is thriving, in large part because of our technological leadership. Science and technology have become the engine of America's economic growth: information technology alone accounts for 1/3 of U.S. economic growth, and is creating jobs that pay almost 80 percent more than the average private-sector wage. Many of the technologies (such as the Internet) that are fueling today's economy are the result of government investments in the 1960's and 1970's. Longer, healthier lives for all Americans: In the last 100 years, the life expectancy of the average American has increased by almost 30 years, as a result of breakthroughs such as antibiotics. Today, we are on the verge of even greater scientific advances, and continued investment in health-related research could lead to greater life expectancies and better quality of life.

Educating America's high-tech workforce: The President's investment in university-based research will help spur innovations in new technologies and treatment, while preparing the next generation of leaders in science, engineering and technology.


*******************

Article 643

Both Senator Mikulski and I, along with the other members of this subcommittee have always been strong supporters of the Federal commitment to basic science. It is clear that Federal investment in research and development has been positive and critical for the economic and intellectual growth and well-being of our Nation. Since its creation in 1950 with the support of a fellow Missourian, President Harry Truman, NSF has been responsible for numerous important scientific and technological advances that have benefited our society. NSF-funded research has helped us better understand the origins of the universe, developed what we call the Internet today, which NSF can legitimately lay claim to fatherhood, and led to important medical advances such as the MRI. With this subcommittee's support, NSF has also pushed the boundaries of information technology and biotechnology which are two of the fastest growing industries in this country. I am also intrigued by the Administration's new proposal to invest in nanotechnology. From what I have heard, this new area may lead to innovations that only science fiction writers can imagine. As many of you know, I have a particular interest in the Federal investment in biotechnology. I strongly believe that biotechnology and namely, plant genome research is imperative in maintaining the long-term sustainability and competitiveness of U.S. agriculture. Further, plant genome research has exciting possibilities for improving human health and nutrition. The sad reality, unfortunately, is that hysteria and fear instead of reason seem to be driving the debate surrounding biotechnology. The most recent example is a large potato processor in Idaho that was forced to no longer use genetically modified potatoes. I found it troubling to read that the Idaho company decided to stop using genetically modified potatoes despite their belief that "biotechnology is important for agriculture and providing affordable food..." This looks like another case where decisions are being driven by misinformation instead of facts. As I have said before and I will continue to say over and over again, it is absolutely critical that we educate the public about biotechnology. 

*******************

Article 644

The request boosts funding for basic research to $20.3 billion, an increase of 7% ($1.3 billion) over FY 2000. The budget also strengthens university-based research, which increases by 8% ($1.3 billion) over FY 2000. Substantial increases for several agencies help to restore balance between biomedical research and other scientific disciplines. The budget provides increases for research in the core disciplines of science and technology across the board. As the President has said, "We have to have a balanced research portfolio, because the research enterprise is increasingly interdependent." He got it exactly right, and his deeds match his words. Science & Technology Initiative The budget request includes a $2.9 billion Science and Technology Initiative directed towards national goals such as world leadership in science and technology and long-term economic growth and prosperity. This S&T Initiative is contained within the 21't Century Research Fund, which ensures effective integration of our science and technology investments. The Research Fund grows by 7% in FY 2001, to a total of $42.9 billion. These investments will ensure that science and technology will continue to fuel economic growth and allow Americans to lead longer, healthier lives. These investments also will enable America to continue to lead in the 21st century by increasing support in all scientific and engineering disciplines, including biomedical research, nanotechnology, information technology, clean energy, and university-based research. Specifically, this infusion of funds will enable researchers to tackle important scientific and technological challenges, and will lead to: American prosperity in the 21st Century: With rapid growth, increased productivity and rising standards of living, the U.S. economy is thriving, in large part because of our technological leadership. Science and technology have become the engine of America's economic growth: information technology alone accounts for 1/3 of U.S. economic growth, and is creating jobs that pay almost 80 percent more than the average private- sector wage. Many of the technologies (such as the Internet) that are fueling today's economy are the result of government investments in the 1960's and 1970's. Longer, healthier lives for all Americans: In the last 100 years, the life expectancy of the average American has increased by almost 30 years, as a result of breakthroughs such as antibiotics. Today, we are on the verge of even greater scientific advances, and continued investment in health-related research could lead to greater life expectancies and better quality of life. 

*******************

Article 645

The other half of the request identifies specific priorities representing a 20 percent increase within the Foundation's research and related activities account and a 48 percent increase in major research equipment. These increases are appropriately bold for an "investment" budget: Information Technology Research will push the frontiers of high- end computing to expand our computer architecture, storage and retrieval, and network. The Terascale Computing System program will make supercomputing accessible to scientists and engineers across the Nation. And to better understand the social effects of those technologies, a research agenda on ethical, legal, education, and workforce issues will be supported across disciplines and cultures, including the use of technology in marketing goods and services in the global economy. Like Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering is an Administration multi-agency initiative that NSF will lead. Nanometer scale - that is, one billionth of a meter to several hundred billionths - enables us to work at the atomic and molecular levels. Such manipulations create boundless possibilities for design of materials, manufacturing, electronics, computer simulations and processes in the environment are virtually bound less. The National Nanofabrication Users Network, university-based research hubs, and small business will all participate in the nanotechnology revolution. Biocomplexity in the Environment is an ambitious program to integrate our understanding of dynamic systems ranging from simple organisms to whole ecosystems, from the transmission of waterborne contaminants to global climate change. Construction of a National Ecological Observatory Network, or NEON, will advance exploration of the biology of the planet pole-to-pole. I am proud to add that the Board recently issued a report on Environmental Science and Engineering for the 21st Century <Www.nsf.gov/nsb/documents> that calls for a significant increase in resources for environmental research, education, assessment, and infrastructure. The President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology and the National Science and Technology Council has endorsed the report. The intellectual maturity of environmental research makes the timing right to ramp up and sustain a programmatic thrust across agencies. In the Board's view, the environmental arena warrants a five-year growth plan that would more than double NSF's current portfolio. The FY 2001 budget request begins this quest. NSF-supported Major Research Equipment not cited above includes facilities and instruments ranging from earthquake observational equipment, to the South Pole Station, the Large Hadron Collider and the Millimeter Array. 

*******************

Article 646

The FY 2001 budget request for the National Science Foundation if enacted, would provide the largest dollar increase the Foundation has ever received. This investment will help set the stage for a new century of progress through learning and discovery. For the coming fiscal year, the NSF requests $4.57 billion dollars. This represents a much needed increase - 17.3% overall - - over $675 million above the current level. This investment is part of the President's 21st Century Research Fund for America, and it is all about keeping the United States at the leading edge of learning and discovery. The headliners in NSF's 2001 request are four focused, multidisciplinary initiatives. In fact, they are really national priorities: Information Technology Research, Biocomplexity, 21st Century Workforce and the emergent National Nanoscale Science and Engineering Initiative. Each initiative integrates research across the disciplines of science, engineering and mathematics. Solving many of the challenges facing our society will require more than individual discoveries. It will require the integration of knowledge from all disciplines. Biocomplexity - for example - seeks no less than a more complete understanding of our complex world and its interactions - physical, biological and social. In describing these interactions, I am reminded of the words of the naturalist John Muir. He wrote: "When we try to pick out anything by itself, we find it hitched to everything else in the universe." Up to now, we have sought understanding by taking things apart into their components. Now, at last, we begin to map out the interplay between the parts of complex systems. One especially promising area in Biocomplexity is the study of the Earth's crust as a habitat for micro-organisms. To illustrate this I would like take us on a very brief journey by video to the depths of the sea floor. The footage we will see was taken with an IMAX camera from inside the submersible Alvin. NSF has long supported Alvin, and we also helped to support this filming. Not yet seen by the public, this footage is part of a proposed film about deep-sea hydrothermal vents being produced by Stephen Low Productions in collaboration with the Rutgers Institute of Marine and Coastal Sciences and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. It was shot at a deep-sea vent called "9 Degrees North" in the Pacific Ocean south of Mexico. The film will bring the astonishing life of the vents to millions of people who will never be able to descend in a submarine. 

*******************

Article 647

Let me now tell you something about our program in North Dakota. Twenty three DEPSCoR projects have been funded in North Dakota since 1994. The projects were developed by North Dakota science and engineering researchers in collaboration with DOD program officers to address topics critical to defense readiness and capabilities. The program is a true partnership between DOD, the State of North Dakota, and the universities involved. The research topics cover a wide spectrum of issues important to the DOD mission. We have DOD sponsored efforts in logistics, database development, encryption science, and a variety of materials-based programs.

For example, one of my projects has led to a very safe and low temperature method of production of semiconductor materials such as gallium arsenide, tin sulfide, and tin selenide in a new and useful form, quantum dots, i.e., less than one ten billionth of a meter. Semiconductors in this form open the door to broad range of useful properties. We shall be seeing these "nanomaterials" in all phases of our lives where electronic equipment is important: from very sensitive optical detectors to micro lasers to vanishingly small transmitters. In North Dakota, we are now imbedding these incredibly small particles in polymers to develop an entirely new class of polymeric materials.

The sky is the limit here. One could say that the smaller the particle, the larger the potential for scientific and technical advances.

Mr. Chairman, this a very exciting new area of scientific research.


*******************

Article 648

Following review of the individual projects by the appropriate research office (the Anny Research Office, the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, the Office of Naval Research, or the Air Force Office of Scientific Research), 81 projects were selected for funding with $24 million made available in FY 2000. The average award was $296,000. Let me now tell you something about our program in North Dakota. Twenty three DEPSCoR projects have been funded in North Dakota since 1994. The projects were developed by North Dakota science and engineering researchers in collaboration with DOD program officers to address topics critical to defense readiness and capabilities. The program is a true partnership between DOD, the State of North Dakota, and the universities involved. The research topics cover a wide spectrum of issues important to the DOD mission. We have DOD sponsored efforts in logistics, database development, encryption science, and a variety of materials-based programs. For example, one of my projects has led to a very safe and low temperature method of production of semiconductor materials such as gallium arsenide, tin sulfide, and tin selenide in a new and useful form, quantum dots, i.e., less than one ten billionth of a meter. Semiconductors in this form open the door to broad range of useful properties. We shall be seeing these "nanomaterials" in all phases of our lives where electronic equipment is important: from very sensitive optical detectors to micro lasers to vanishingly small transmitters. In North Dakota, we are now imbedding these incredibly small particles in polymers to develop an entirely new class of polymeric materials. The sky is the limit here. One could say that the smaller the particle, the larger the potential for scientific and technical advances. Mr. Chairman, this a very exciting new area of scientific research. It can really change the way our world will be in the future and it will provide our military with significant new war- fighting capabilities for the 2l't Century. 


*******************

Article 649

Each of these teams has made recommendations that will help us improve our processes and make our operations safer and better. After careful review of these reports, NASA will share our plans to address the recommendations contained in the reports with the Congress and work with you and the Administration to ensure their timely implementation. We must continue to learn, not only from our successes, but also from our failures.

Mr. Chairman, in spite of our difficulties, I believe the report card on NASA's performance reflects well on the support of the Committee and on behalf of the American people. While we accomplished a great deal in 1999, I see an even brighter future ahead. That does not mean we will not experience difficulties. We will. The ambitious programs we undertake are intolerant of human error and stress our human capabilities to detect and respond to anomalies. Our strategy to achieve major improvements in safety, taking advantage of emergent technical tools, such as the Intelligent Synthesis Environment, includes improving our systems management approaches, and continuing to infuse the philosophy and practice of safety in all that we undertake. This budget provides funding for the research into and development of the technologies that will improve the probability of mission success. The additional funding requested for personnel and facilities, Shuttle safety investments, the next generations of launch vehicles, general aviation aircraft, Intelligent Systems, Bioastronautics, and nanotechnologies should all be understood as key players in improving Safety.

FY 2001 Budget Overview

The FY 2001 budget represents a vote of confidence from the President that NASA is ready to tackle new challenges and opportunities in the New Millennium. This budget funds NASA's priorities and makes critical new investments to improve Space Shuffle safety, continue to build the ISS, enable a new generation of reusable launch vehicles that will improve the safety and reduce the cost of access to space through a new Space Launch Initiative, undertake new science and technology initiatives to enhance our understanding of our planet, the solar system and the universe, and invest in aeronautics, education, our workforce and facilities.


+++++++++++++++++++

The focus of the study has been on developing an integrated space transportation plan to meet NASA's needs for human and cargo delivery, while seeking synergy with the commercial space sector. The Initiative also includes procurement of near-term alternative access to the ISS for cargo transport needs on commercial vehicles.

This year we will undertake bold new science and technology initiatives in biotechnology, nanotechnology, and information technology.

Three key emerging, interrelated technologies will provide NASA with a new pathway to revolutionize our missions and the scientific and engineering systems that enable them: biotechnology, nanotechnology and information technology. Over the past decade, there have been tremendous scientific breakthroughs in the understanding of these fundamental processes. We are now ready for our technology to move out and exploit what we are learning. We will develop and execute our missions with greater safety, performance and robustness, while continuously decreasing design cycle time and life cycle cost.

The first tier of NASA's technology strategy is biotechnology -- the the revolutionary technology of the 21st century. Since the formation of the first cells on Earth, all living systems have developed an extraordinary capacity to adapt to rapidly changing conditions, build- in a high degree of resilience enabling them to overcome damage and evolve in response to new environments. In terms of size, memory, processing speed and energy consumption biological systems are up to a billion times better than the systems we build today. These are the characteristics NASA will build into its future missions and systems. NASA will apply the underlying principles of biological processes to all our missions. We will develop biologically-inspired materials that self-repair when damaged, structures that self-assemble to achieve near perfect final shapes. We will develop concepts for aircraft that change their shape in flight like birds to optimize performance or perform complex maneuvers in complete safety.

Nanotechnology provides the capability to manipulate matter at the atomic level. In the future, we will measure the way we design and build our systems by the atom, not by the pound. Today, we are developing material systems, at the molecular level, that are 100 times stronger than steel at 1/6 the weight. We will also develop sensors and detectors capable of responding to a single photon of light or the stimulus from a single electron. Using nanotechnology, we will build systems on a scale 1000 times smaller than today -- at true molecular level. They will be based on concepts emerging from biology, quantum mechanics and chemistry, all of which have no current parallel. Following this hearing, in this very room, Dr. Richard Klaussner and I will sign a memorandum of understanding between NASA and the National Cancer Institute to develop new biomedical technologies related to nano-explorers that can detect, diagnose and treat disease here on Earth and in space.



*******************

Article 650

I know that NASA's budget also includes an increase for Space Science. One of the new programs is Living with the Star Initiative. I want to commend you and Dr. Weiler, the administrator for Space Science, for this program and look forward to hearing more about it. As I understand it, Living Star (ph) will be a series of missions to better understand how the Sun interacts with the Earth, and this is not only a great intellectual and scientific exercise but could be very crucial in providing longer, advanced warning of solar storms to protect power grids in telecommunications.

Two other things: One, is I look forward to discussing with you nanotechnology. This new breakthrough in technology development that could take the United States of America so far into the future with new breakthroughs, and I look forward to being with you today when you do an agreement with the Cancer Institute on this exploration of outer space and inner space. Earth Science, unfortunately, the five-year budget outlook shows a cut in funding of $100 million by the year 2005. This is the only science program that shows a cut in funding, and it's raised my concerns about NASA's long-term plan for Space Science. I do believe that NASA needs a post-EOS DIS vision for Earth Science and would like to discuss that with you.


I'm also concerned, once again, about Russian participation in the International Space Station. There are consistent reports that the Russians now have diverted money from the station, and it's gotten into the hands of their Biological Warfare Program. I am deeply troubled by the fact that the Russians continually not deliver. We have continually do the backup. They did go to Iran with their rocket technology, and I sure hope you can tell me that they haven't taken some of our space money and it into biological warfare.




*******************

Article 651

If the economic prosperity of today is to continue, Congress must have a long-term vision that supports research which may have no practical application for ten, fifteen, or even twenty years. When baby-boomers begin to retire in increasing numbers in coming decades it is imperative that the United States have a vibrant economy capable of supporting the demands they will place on the budget. The investments in NSF today will lay the foundation for the technological development that will energize the economy of the next decade.

In conclusion, I would like to note that NSF's Motto for its fiftieth anniversary is "Where Discoveries Begin." Whether it is through support for the Lewis and Clark expedition or a grant to an engineer investigating nanoscale structures, the federal government has a long and illustrious history of supporting pioneering discoveries. When you support NSF, you are not supporting individual scientists or engineers, or professors and students, or even researchers and their investigations, you are supporting the something deeper and more profound; you are supporting the pioneering spirit that has made this Nation great. We urge you to provide NSF with its budget request for Fiscal Year 2001, so that the next fifty years will be where discoveries prosper.



*******************

Article 652

And it is important to do so now while it is possible. There are shortages of people going into some of the basic sciences, for example. The knowledge generated by these sciences, mathematics and physics among them, benefit the full range of the other sciences. As you are aware, basic research produces fundamental building blocks that come into use by applied scientists perhaps ten to fifteen years after the building blocks are produced. Another ten or fifteen years later, scientists and technologists use the applied research to develop products which then find their way into the marketplace. Today's Nobel Prize and National Medal of Science winners are being honored for fundamental discoveries they made in the 1950s and 1960s that led to practical applications in the 1990s. If the font of basic discovery is not constantly replenished, the adverse consequences will play out during the next 20 to 40 years.

We know, for example, that in the computer industry where speed and volume of computing are all important, there is enough basic knowledge to make one more large leap in computing speed. After that, there is a dearth of basic science on which to build the next increase in speed.

That is why nanotechnology is a second area where increased NSF funding will be focused. It is money that will be used to make up the knowledge deficit so that it will be possible to make the next leap.

It is significant that a third focus of in--ed funding will be to finally begin to replenish funds for the core science programs. Nearly 20 years of funding have gone into major initiatives wherein even basic research has been mission focused. That tactic has helped us capitalize on fundamental knowledge. And it should be continued. But it is time to pay attention again to the source of scientific and technical advancement, fundamental research in the core disciplines. So we join with other members of the Coalition for National Science Funding in urging you to support at least the level of funding requested by the President for the National Science Foundation.



*******************

Article 653

The agency funds approximately 10,000 research, education and training projects through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements to more than 2,000 colleges, universities, and other research and/or education organizations in all parts of the United States. Nearly 200,000 people are involved directly in NSF research and education programs and activities. In FY 2001, these are projected to include nearly 40,000 senior researchers and other professionals, more than 61,000 postdoctoral, graduate and undergraduate students, 11,390 K-12 students and 80,830 K- 12 teachers.

Most of the total proposed budget increase of $675 million would be devoted to four major initiatives that involve each of the seven NSF directorates:

1. Information Technology Research ($326.91 million) 2. Nanoscale Science and Engineering ($216.65 million) 3. Biocomplexity in the Environment ($136.31 million) 4. 21st Century Workforce ($157.05 million).

However, nearly half of the increase -- $320 million -- would strengthen core research programs,

A. The Information Technology Research (ITR) initiative seeks to bring about advances in software, networking, sealability, high-end computing, mathematics, research applications, wireless networking, communications and remote sensing. Research universities support the Information Technology initiative not only because it will benefit computer science faculty, but also because advances in high-end computing will make the entire science and engineering enterprise more productive and examine issues previously too complex to address with existing information technology. This initiative also has the strong support of industry in the information sector, because it will help derive answers to mathematical, physics, engineering and other problems that industry thus far has not been able to solve on its own.

B. The Nanoscale Science and Engineering initiative hopes to bring about advances in man's ability to develop micro- and submicroscopic devices that will have applications in many fields, from information technology and medicine to manufacturing and the environment.

C. Biocomplexity in the Environment (BE) is a multidisciplinary approach to understanding the world environment. It investigates the many complex systems that are structured or influenced by living organisms or biological processes.


*******************

Article 654

First, at the frontier of genomics is the study of protein folding. It is not enough to know what the DNA sequences are, but also how they string themselves out in space. For this, the topological study of knots developed by mathematicians turns out to be essential. Like so much else today, the human genome project also depends critically on the recent development of mathematical procedures for understanding massive amounts of multidimensional data.

Second, as we push toward the information processing limits of silicon chips, nanotechnology must invoke the quantum mechanics of electrons and other elementary particles. At that scale, the world behaves in truly bizarre ways, so that you cannot even tell where something is and where it is going at the same time. In a realm where physical intuition fails so dramatically, all we have to go on is mathematics. Without the spectral theory of self-adjoint operators in infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces, we would be totally lost.

Third, sphere packing is one of the many theoretical problems made urgent by the communications revolution. In the early 1600's, Sir Walter Rayleigh asked the British mathematician Thomas Harriot to help the Royal Navy find a formula for the total number of cannonballs in a pyramid with a given base. Harriot passed on to the great astronomer Johannes Kepler the question of whether this was the most efficient arrangement in terms of minimizing the empty space left over. The conjecture Kepler made in 1611 was finally solved by Thomas Hales at the University of Michigan in 1998 with NSF support. By now, it is not just the Office of Naval Research or grocers packing crates of oranges who are interested, but cell phone companies, too. Every piece of information technology that tries to cram as much data as possible effectively and efficiently through a given line depends on precisely such sphere packing problems, usually in very high dimensional spaces. NSF-supported advances made just this past year in my own department about surprisingly dense packings in dimensions 8 and 24 also help illuminate why those dimensions play a role in current string theory, the physicists' "theory of everything."

In these examples, the intimate connections between knot theory, operator theory, and number theory on the one hand and genomics, nanotechnology, and information technology on the other, are delightful surprises that could not have been predicted or directed. That is why, in addition to supporting initiatives in these and other areas in the FY 2001 Budget, mathematicians also join with other scientists in expressing special enthusiasm for the increases in core funding included as part of NSF's plans this year. We have confidence that the mechanisms at NSF can rebalance the research portfolio with these funds in much needed ways. There has been a tendency in the past to go after fancy and attractive desserts without paying enough attention to vitamins and minerals. Constant dollar expenditures in the traditional disciplines have remained relatively fiat for decades in comparison to the spiraling increases for, say, medical research and development.



*******************

Article 655

Building on the issues we raised in our testimony last year, we express our concern that this year's proposal combining aeronautics R&D with space-related technology development programs may actually undermine U.S. leadership in civil and defense aviation. Although we understand the idea that such a blending of resources will provide synergism between the aeronautics and space research programs, the fact is that federal support for advanced aviation directed technology development has been on the decline for the past several years - not only in NASA, but across the government. The expected synergism may therefore show a uni-directional resource flow - from aircraft technology to spacecraft technology.

One could possibly argue that this decline is appropriate for a mature industry - after all, aviation technology has been advancing for nearly one hundred years. In this age of information technology, biotechnology, and nanotechnology (naming only a few) we see whole new industries created and growing almost daily, and it may be easy to rationalize that tax dollars formerly dedicated to producing the technologies for civil and military air transport would best be invested in these new frontier areas.Continued exploration in established industries, such as the air transport industry, is best left to the industries themselves, so the argument goes.

It is our view that such a position fails to recognize the contribution that federal investment in civil and military aeronautics research makes to the nation's economy and international economic competitiveness. Such a position fails to recognize that the government agencies (FAA, NASA, and NTSB) are the controlling influence for safety and efficiency in the national airspace system. Also, it fails to recognize the national security implications of providing the necessary resources and research to assure the availability of technologies needed for long-term future military aircraft designs (beyond the F-22 and JSF).



*******************

Article 656

(2) West Virginia EPSCOR supported the development of research that brought WVU scientific contributions to the international scientific community. Dr. Kenneth Showalter and his group received support through the NSF EPSCOR program for work on nonlinear dynamics. His work has appeared as feature stories in Nature and Science magazines, the premier science magazines in the United States and in the United Kingdom.

(3) Through West Virginia EPSCOR investments, West Virginia University developed unique capability in materials research directed toward the improvement of high performance alloys. This group has developed new computational and experimental methodologies to reduce the cost of designing and improving materials used in high temperature applications, such as turbine blades. The group is working with West Virginia companies, such as Specialty Metals of Huntington, and Touchstone Laboratories of Triadelphia, as well as with other national companies such as General Electric.

We currently have many of the same concerns that we had over networking - that is, exclusion - from other new initiatives such as nanotechnology, biodiversity, information technology workforce training and development. These are new initiatives at NSF. They are important initiatives for our nation's research strength. They are important to future economic vitality and growth. In a mobile society and global economy that is highly dependent upon science and technology, no state can afford to be left behind in these important endeavors.

EPSCOR has provided us a means of participating in the advanced networking and computing field as I have already described, in the vBNS, the Next Generation Internet, and the PACI program. EPSCOR can also help us insure, through the research infrastructure improvement awards and co-funding, that all states have an opportunity to develop these new fields. This program is vitally important to the economy of each of our states and especially to our young people who live therein. Despite increased mobility, the vast majority of students still attend college within 100 miles of home.


*******************

Article 657

The DOE budget for FY 2001 requests $3,151.1 million for SC programs in the Science Appropriation and $9.3 million for the Technical Information Program in the Energy Supply Appropriation. The activities supported by this budget will build on SC's achievements in the physical and biological sciences, leverage our current investments for new opportunities, and permit new investments in individual research projects at our national laboratories and research universities across the country. The Department's science programs and infrastructure advance basic research and provide the technical foundations and resources for DOE's applied missions in national security, energy, and environment. 

This request will enable SC to pursue new and challenging scientific opportunities in nanoscale science, engineering and technology to allow for the creation of new materials one atom at a time; advanced scientific computing research to advance all of our research programs by taking advantage of the prodigious increases in computing power that will occur in the next few years; molecular level understanding of microbes to harness nature's remarkable chemical factories; and bioengineering to use the science and engineering capabilities of our programs for new breakthroughs. In addition, the ongoing programs representing our core competencies will remain strong and vigorous.

The requested funding will allow Fermilab to initiate Run II of the Tevatron Collider using the new Main Injector, which will increase its beam intensity by up to a factor of ten, and the correspondingly upgraded the Collider Detector at Fermilab (CDF) and the D0 detector. Run I discovered the top quark and Run II will allow a search for the origin of mass and new symmetries in the fundamental interactions of matter. Late in FY 2000, a major new nuclear physics facility at the Brookhaven National Laboratory called the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) begins colliding gold nuclei to create a form of matter that has not existed since the Big Bang and the first results are expected in FY 2001. Encouraging hints of this "quark-gluon plasma" have recently been detected at CERN. The B Factory at Stanford Liner Accelerator Center (SLAC), designed to study the subtle matter- antimatter asymmetry in our matter-dominated world, will have its first full year of running at full design luminosity. Major new results on the depleted neutrino signal from the sun will be provided by the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory (SNO) detector, located 2 kilometers underground in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. The request will also allow SLAC to begin the final design and prototyping for Gamma Large Area Space Telescope (GLAST). This exciting new initiative between DOE and NASA combines the sophisticated experimental techniques of our high energy physics programs with the expertise of NASA in space to enhance our ability to solve the mysteries of the universe.



*******************

Article 658

Excellent progress continues toward first flight of the Hyper-X CX43) this summer. Successful low-altitude flights of the Helios, a solar powered, unpiloted air vehicle, were significant steps toward our attempt to fly this aircraft at 100,000 feet next year. In our new Revolutionary Concepts for Aeronautics project, three advanced concept projects have been initiated blended wing body, pulse detonated engine, and autonomous formation flight--and soon, systems analysis phases will begin for several more. In FY 2001, we plan to demonstrate the capability to allow an aircraft to adapt in flight to the loss, as a result of failure or malfunction, of any and all control surfaces. Integration testing and delivery of the blended wing body test vehicle will be completed. We plan to complete the conceptual design of the innovative pulse detonation-engine-based hybrid cycle and combined cycle propulsion systems, as well as rig testing of a core hot section oil-free radial foil bearing.

In FY 2001, we will significantly expand our activities to exploit emerging nanotechnology and new concepts inspired by biology. We are currently exploring aerospace composite materials based on carbon- nanotubes (100X stronger than steel and 1/6 the weight) and methods for imbedding sensors and actuators in materials to enable design of smart systems. Through such approaches, we will begin developing concepts for aerospace systems having physical and performance characteristics similar to biological systems. One example is a material that would allow an aircraft wing to warp---changes in thickness, camber or dihedral--to respond to particular operating conditions to enable extreme maneuverability and aerodynamic efficiency without separate control surfaces. Other concepts include materials that can serf-heal if damaged or that have embedded vehicle "nervous systems" to provide highly detailed information on the physical health of the systems.

Intelligent Synthesis Environment (ISE) will revolutionize the next generation science and engineering capabilities within NASA, and on a national scale.

The goal of the program is to develop the capability for personnel at dispersed geographic locations to work together in an immersive virtual environment, using computer simulations to rapidly model the complete life-cycle of a product or mission before commitments are made to produce physical products. The emphasis of the program is on revolutionary capability such as modeling and simulation using advanced machine learning versus traditional "mathematical" analysis methods and modeling approaches to quantify total life-cycle cost and risk. In FY 2000, NASA will identify high-payoff technologies through pilot and pathfinding studies and will initiate partnership agreements to leverage related technology development activities in other government agencies and industry.

*******************

Article 659

In addition, nondestructive evaluation techniques were developed that increase crack detection in thick structures by a factor of two. Excellent progress continues toward first flight of the Hyper-X (X-43) this summer. Successful low-altitude flights of the Helios, a solar powered, unpiloted air vehicle, were significant steps toward our attempt to fly this aircraft at I 00,000 feet next year. In our new Revolutionary Concepts for Aeronautics project, three advanced concept projects have been initiated-blended wing body, pulse detonated engine, and autonomous formation flight-and soon, systems analysis phases will begin for several more. In FY 2001, we plan to demonstrate the capability to allow an aircraft to adapt in flight to the loss, as a result of failure or malfunction, of any and all control surfaces. Integration testing and delivery of the blended wing body test vehicle will be completed. We plan to complete the conceptual design of the innovative pulse- detonation-engine- based hybrid cycle and combined cycle propulsion systems, as well as rig testing of a core hot section oil-free radial foil bearing. In FY 2001, we will significantly expand our activities to exploit emerging nano- technology and new concepts inspired by biology. We are currently exploring aerospace composite materials based on carbon-nanotubes (I OOX stronger than steel and 1/6 the weight) and methods for imbedding sensors and actuators in materials to enable design of smart systems. Through such approaches, we will begin developing concepts for aerospace systems having physical and performance characteristics similar to biological systems. One example is a material that would allow an aircraft wing to warp--changes in thickness, camber or dihedral-to respond to particular operating conditions to enable extreme maneuverability and aerodynamic efficiency without separate control surfaces. Other concepts include materials that can self-heal if damaged or that have embedded vehicle "nervous systems" to provide highly detailed information on the physical health of the systems. Intelligent Synthesis Environment (ISE) will revolutionize the next generation science and engineering capabilities within NASA, and on a national scale. The goal of the program is to develop the capability for personnel at dispersed geographic locations to work together in an immersive virtual environment, using computer simulations to rapidly model the complete life-cycle of a product or mission before commitments are made to produce physical products. The emphasis of the program is on revolutionary capability such as modeling and simulation using advanced machine learning versus traditional "mathematical" analysis methods and modeling approaches to quantify total life-cycle cost and risk. 

*******************

Article 660

Today, information technologies allow industries to recognize instantaneously changes in demand, and to manage their inventories more efficiently and quickly. They are speeding the development of new products to market. Supercomputers, for example, have helped Detroit auto makers cut the development times of new cars by half or more. They've helped pharmaceutical companies cut down the development time for new anti-cancer drugs by several years.

Clearly, they will have a profound effect, information technologies, in biomedical sciences in the 21st century, as we see by the simple fact that in the next few weeks, we will announce for the first time the complete sequencing of the human genome, something that will have been literally impossible without information technology. And, of course, just contemplating the potential impact of nanotechnology on the biological sciences alone staggers the imagination.

Information technology clearly is also creating a lot of more mundane opportunities in e-commerce for traditional businesses, as well as the .com companies. And business-to-business e-commerce is growing even faster than business to customer commerce. In three years, it may reach a staggering $1.3 trillion in the United States alone.


*******************

Article 661

Today, information technologies allow industries to recognize instantaneously changes in demand, and to manage their inventories more efficiently and quickly. They are speeding the development of new products to market. Supercomputers, for example, have helped Detroit auto makers cut the development times of new cars by half or more. They've helped pharmaceutical companies cut down the development time for new anti-cancer drugs by several years.


Clearly, they will have a profound effect, information technologies, in biomedical sciences in the 21st century, as we see by the simple fact that in the next few weeks, we will announce for the first time the complete sequencing of the human genome, something that will have been literally impossible without information technology. And, of course, just contemplating the potential impact of nanotechnology on the biological sciences alone staggers the imagination.


Information technology clearly is also creating a lot of more mundane opportunities in e-commerce for traditional businesses, as well as the .com companies. And business-to-business e-commerce is growing even faster than business to customer commerce. In three years, it may reach a staggering $1.3 trillion in the United States alone.


*******************

Article 662

That motto has just as much meaning today - in the 21st century - as it did in 1792, in an era before the advent of the steam engine. Individual scientists and engineers -supported by NSF and other federal agencies - are using their talent and their freedom to create, discover and innovate.

Increasingly these scientists and engineers, and perhaps even more important their students - are also making the jump to the private sector.

This transfer to the private sector of people - first supported by NSF at universities - should be viewed as the ultimate success of technology transfer. These talented scientists and engineers are part of the new wave of entrepreneurs creating enormous wealth in areas like information technology, biotechnology, and now in nanotechnology.

Everyday we read a news story touting the latest Internet whiz kid or biotechnology IPO. David Ignatius - in a recent column in the Washington Post - wrote about a 27-year old Stanford graduate student with a smart business plan and a hot Internet search engine with the strange name of Google.The offbeat name is actually a reference to the complex math - actually a series of mathematical algorithms - that makes the search engine work. It involves over half a billion variables in it's complex calculations.


*******************

Article 663

Information Technology Research will push the frontiers of high-end computing to expand our computer architecture, storage and retrieval, and network. The Terascale Computing System program will make supercomputing accessible to scientists and engineers across the Nation. And to better understand the social effects of those technologies, a research agenda on ethical, legal, education, and workforce issues will be supported across disciplines and cultures, including the use of technology in marketing goods and services in the global economy.

Like Information Technology Research, Nanoscaie Science and Engineering is an Administration multi-agency initiative that NSF will lead. Nanometer scale--that is, one billionth of a meter to several hundred billionths - enables us to work at the atomic and molecular levels. Such manipulations create boundless possibilities for design of materials, manufacturing, electronics, computer simulations and processes in the environment are virtually boundless. The National Nanofabrication Users Network, university-based research hubs, and small business will all participate in the nanotechnology revolution.

Biocomplexity in the Environment is an ambitious program to integrate our understanding of dynamic systems ranging from simple organisms to whole ecosystems, from the transmission of waterborne contaminants to global climate change. Construction of a National Ecological Observatory Network will advance exploration of the biology of the planet pole-to-pole.I am proud to add that the Board recently issued a report on Environmental Science and Engineering for the 21st Century (www.nsf.gov/nsb/documents) that calls for a significant increase in resources for environmental research, education, assessment, and infrastructure. The report has been endorsed by the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology and the National Science and Technology Council. The intellectual maturity of environmental research makes the timing right to ramp up and sustain a programmatic thrust across agencies. In the Board's view, the environmental arena warrants a five-year growth plan that would more than double NSF's current portfolio. The FY 2001 budget request begins this quest.


*******************

Article 664

Also, I am pleased to represent the Association of American Universities (AAU), an organization of 61 public and private research universities across the U.S. and Canada. I currently serve as president of the Association of Graduate Schools, a group within AAU. Many of you have AAU institutions within your States. We are joined in this statement by the American Council on Education, the Council of Graduate Schools, and the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges.

You have heard today and over the past several weeks from many witnesses advocating increases in NIH funding--patient groups, scientific societies, and research institutions. I speak on behalf of research institutions, whose faculty translate NIH research grants into findings that improve human health and well-being. I want to say that this is a great time to be in research - there is so much we can do and so much that needs to be done. A number of exciting, new areas being investigated by faculty at UW-Madison include genomics, chemical biology, nanotechnology, biomedical engineering, bioinformatics and many more. These are just a few examples of the kind of cutting-edge science that is going on all over the United States, due to this nation's wise investments in biomedical research at NIH. This investment is improving our lives and the lives of future generations.

I also know that many of these advances depend on efforts in many other fields of science, including physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, and engineering. For example, lasers evolved from mathematicians and physicists studying light waves, and, because of those efforts, lasers are now common tools in medicine. A decade ago, cataract removal represented major surgery with substantial recuperation time; today, this is done with lasers as outpatient surgery with rapid recovery - that is progress through research by both physical and biological scientists. We hope that NIH, as well as the other science agencies, will be provided with the resources needed to support these other scientific fields that I can attest are critical to the success of biomedical research.


*******************

Article 665

It is with this same sense of anticipation that I would like to comment on the priorities in the NSF budget request. NSF Budget Priorities Fully one-half of the Foundation's budget request is for "core support" to grow the knowledge base. This takes time and requires a distribution of resources across a spectrum of disciplines, problems, and performing institutions. The Foundation continues to seek ways to increase the average dollar amount and duration of research grants. This would bring needed continuity to investigators' research programs and the support of graduate students. The other half of the request identifies specific priorities representing a 20 percent increase within the Foundation's research and related activities account and a 48 percent increase in major research equipment. These increases are appropriately bold for an "investment" budget: Information Technology Research will push the frontiers of high- end computing to expand our computer architecture, storage and retrieval, and network. The Terascale Computing System program will make supercomputing accessible to scientists and engineers across the Nation. And to better understand the social effects of those technologies, a research agenda on ethical, legal, education, and workforce issues will be supported across disciplines and cultures, including the use of technology in marketing goods and services in the global economy. Like Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering is an Administration multi-agency initiative that NSF will lead. Nanometer scale-that is, one billionth of a meter to several hundred billionths - enables us to work at the atomic and molecular levels. Such manipulations create boundless possibilities for design of materials, manufacturing, electronics, computer simulations and processes in the environment are virtually boundless. The National Nanofabrication Users Network, university-based research hubs, and small business will all participate in the nanotechnology revolution. Biocomplexity in the Environment is an ambitious program to integrate our understanding of dynamic systems ranging from simple organisms to whole ecosystems, from the transmission of waterborne contaminants to global climate change. Construction of a National Ecological Observatory Network will advance exploration of the biology of the planet pole-to-pole. I am proud to add that the Board recently issued a report on Environmental Science and Engineering for the 21st Century <www.nsf.gov/nsb/documents> that calls for a significant increase in resources for environmental research, education, assessment, and infrastructure. The report has been endorsed by the President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology and the National Science and Technology Council. The intellectual maturity of environmental research makes the timing right to ramp up and sustain a programmatic thrust across agencies. In the Board's view, the environmental arena warrants a five-year growth plan that would more than double NSF's current portfolio.

*******************

Article 666

This investment is part of the President's 21't Century Research Fund for America, and it is all about keeping the United States at the leading edge of learning and discovery. Our nation's commitment to science, engineering and education can be seen from the very beginning of the nation, The motto on America's first coin for example - minted in 1792 - read: Liberty: Parent of Science and Industry. That motto has just as much meaning today - in the 21st century - as it did in 1792, in an era before the advent of the steam engine. Individual scientists and engineers -supported by NSF and other federal agencies - are using their talent and their freedom to create, discover and innovate. Increasingly these scientists and engineers, and perhaps even more important their students - are also making the jump to the private sector. This transfer to the private sector of people - first supported by NSF at universities - should be viewed as the ultimate success of technology transfer. These talented scientists and engineers are part of the new wave of entrepreneurs creating enormous wealth in areas like information technology, biotechnology, and now in nanotechnology. Everyday we read a news story touting the latest Internet whiz kid or biotechnology IPO. David Ignatius - in a recent column in the Washington Post - wrote about a 27-year old Stanford graduate student with a smart business plan and a hot Internet search engine with the strange name of Google. The offbeat name is actually a reference to the complex math - actually a series of mathematical algorithms - that makes the search engine work. It involves over half a billion variables in it's complex calculations. Google the company is an excellent example of knowledge transfer from NSF investments in people. Both of the company's two founders were computer science grad students at Stanford who studied under an NSF-funded faculty member. One of the founders received an NSF Graduate Research Fellowship. Google's Vice President of Engineering is a computer science professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara and recipient of a prestigious NSF CAREER award. Google is a great example of how fundamental research in an area like mathematics acts as the lifeblood of the IT revolution. It also shows how the unparalleled innovation system in the U.S. can quickly exploit new ideas developed in university labs and bring them to market. This example is really just the latest in a string of NSF successes. 

*******************

Article 667

To enable this, the NCI funded the establishment of 24 "microarray" centers across the country. Next, the institute announced a new funding initiative called the Director's Challenge whose goal is to identify new molecular classification schemes for cancer to replace the purely histologic schemes of the last century. The initial funding established 10 consortia involving 24 institutions addressing breast, prostate, ovarian, colorectal, cancers as well as lymphomas and leukemias. Already, results from these groups are revealing new types and subtypes of cancer that appear to predict which patients will respond to particular therapies. This year, we hope to expand this program to more types of cancer and to define the clinical implications of these new classes of cancers to help predict prognosis and guide the choice of therapy.

Imaging Cancer

Four years ago, the NCI identified imaging as one of its extraordinary opportunities for investment. We have developed new funding mechanisms for exploratory, innovative grants (almost 150 grants received), the establishment of five small animal imaging centers, and the establishment of a national clinical trials network to rapidly evaluate the clinical utility of new imaging approaches. This network, called the American College of Radiology Imaging Network (ACRIN) has a number of clinical trials in preparation including a comparison of Magnetic Resonance (MR) and Computed Tomography (CT) in gynecologic malignancies, the use of Positron Emission Tomography (PET) to follow response to chemotherapy, the value of spiral CT for lung cancer screening, comparative studies of virtual colonoscopy and of digital mammography. We are also funding the development of centers to foster the new field of functional imaging, whereby we can detect not only the presence of a tumor but query its molecular characteristics and its behavior. This year, we will be able to fund 2-3 full multi- disciplinary In Vivo Cell and Molecular Imaging Centers (ICMICs). In addition, 27 institutions have applied to receive planning grants to develop such centers. This year, we created the Unconventional Innovations Program (UIP) aimed at developing truly novel detection and imaging systems by bringing revolutionary technologies of molecular sensing, nanoscale devices and microexplorers to enable the remote sensing of cancer. We have funded six consortia of investigators to be part of this program and hope to add more members in response to a second release of this Broad Agency Announcement. Over the past year, our investment in imaging research and technology has increased 30%.

Finally this year, the NCI organized a unique forum to bring together academics, industry (through the National Electrical Manufacturer's Association), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) to coordinate practices relevant to the development, testing and adoption of new imaging modalities and applications. This collaborative enterprise will be a standing forum to facilitate communication and progress in this critical area.


*******************

Article 668

This network, called the American College of Radiology Imaging Network (ACRIN) has a number of clinical trials in preparation including a comparison of Magnetic Resonance (MR) and Computed Tomography (CT) in gynecologic malignancies, the use of Positron Emission Tomography (PET) to follow response to chemotherapy, the value of spiral CT for lung cancer screening, comparative studies of virtual colonoscopy and of digital manunography. We are also funding the development of centers to foster the new field of functional imaging, whereby we can detect not only the presence of a tumor but query its molecular characteristics and its behavior. This year, we will be able to fund 2-' ) full multi-disciplinary In Vivo Cell and Molecular Imaging Centers (ICMICs). In addition, 27 institutions have applied to receive planning grants to develop such centers. This year, we created the Unconventional Innovations Program (UIP) aimed at developing truly novel detection and imaging systems by bringing revolutionary technologies of molecular sensing, nanoscale devices and microexplorers to enable the remote sensing of cancer. We have funded six consortia of investigators to be part of this program and hope to add more members in response to a second release of this Broad Agency Announcement. Over the past year, our investment in imaging research and technology has increased 30%. Finally this year, the NCI organized a unique forum to bring together academics, industry (through the National Electrical Manufacturer's Association), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) to coordinate practices relevant to the development, testing and adoption of new imaging modalities and applications. This collaborative enterprise will be a standing forum to facilitate communication and progress in this critical area. Molecular Targets--New Approaches to Prevention & Treatment For the past three years, the NCI has been redirecting its drug discovery program to one based on the success of basic research in identifying the precise molecular targets implicated in the development (prevention targets) and behavior/survival (therapeutic targets) of cancer.

*******************

Article 669

Science & Technology Initiative The budget request includes a $2.9 billion Science and Technology Initiative directed towards national goals such as world leadership in science and technology and long-term economic growth and prosperity. This S&T Initiative is contained within the 21st Century Research Fund, which ensures effective integration of our science and technology investments. The Research Fund grows by 7% in FY 2001, to a total of $42.9 billion.

These investments will ensure that science and technology will continue to fuel economic growth and allow Americans to lead longer, healthier lives. These investments also will enable America to continue to lead in the 21 st century by increasing support in all scientific and engineering disciplines, including biomedical research, nanotechnology, information technology, clean energy, and university- based research.

Specifically, this infusion of funds will enable researchers to tackle important scientific and technological challenges, and will lead to:

American prosperity in the 21st Century: With rapid growth, increased productivity and rising standards of living, the U.S. economy is thriving, in large part because of our technological leadership. Science and technology have become the engine of America's economic growth: information technology alone accounts for 1/3 of U.S. economic growth, and is creating jobs that pay almost 80 percent more than the average private sector wage. Many of the technologies (such as the Internet) that are fueling today's economy are the result of government investments in the 1960's and 1970's.


*******************

Article 670

The budget calls for $182 million for Advanced Scientific Computing Research (ASCR) to increase computer modeling and simulation research and development.Microbial genomics, an outgrowth of the Department's pioneering work in the Human Genome Program, is expanding efforts in microbial cell research. This research, which involves the study of organisms that have survived and thrived in an extreme and inhospitable environment, could hold the key to advance energy production and use, environmental cleanup, medicine, and agricultural and industrial processing.

Nanotechnology, or research and development into extreme miniaturized technologies, is funded at $91 million, of which $83 million is in the Science budget and $7 million is in Defense Programs. This work gives researchers the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic level and could spark further development of supercomputers that fit in the palm of the hand, or tiny devices to fight disease or heal injuries from inside our bodies. Also included in this science budget is $281 million for the Spallation Neutron Source and $247 million for fusion.

The FY2001 budget continues to strongly support the Department's unique scientific user facilities. Each year over 15,000 university, industry and government-sponsored scientists conduct cutting edge experiments at these particle accelerators, high-flux neutron sources, synchrotron radiation light sources and other specialized facilities.


*******************

Article 671

However the PMAs also buy and sell, as a simple pass through, purchase power and wheeling. This budget assumes that in FY 2001 the PMAs will use offsetting collections from the sale of electricity to finance purchase power and wheeling expenses previously funded by direct appropriations. Purchase power and wheeling activities financed through this method will be phased out in annual decrements by the end of FY 2004. Science and Technology: $3.2 billion (an increase of $337 million, or 12 percent) to strengthen our science programs and provide the knowledge base for future innovation, thereby improving America's long-term position in an increasingly competitive world economy. We continue to promote a strong national scientific infrastructure and provide the technical foundations for our applied missions. The FY 2001 budget includes initiatives to advance ongoing work at the frontiers of nanoscience, scientific computing, microbial genomics, robotics, bioengineering, and it will allow us to increase the use of our scientific facilities. The budget calls for $182 million for Advanced Scientific Computing Research (ASCR) to increase computer modeling and simulation research and development. Microbial genomics, an outgrowth of the Department's pioneering work in the Human Genome Program, is expanding efforts in microbial cell research. This research, which involves the study of organisms that have survived and thrived in an extreme and inhospitable environment, could hold the key to advance energy production and use, environmental cleanup, medicine, and agricultural and industrial processing. Nanotechnology, or research and development into extreme miniaturized technologies, is funded at $91 million, of which $83 million is in the Science budget and $7 million is in Defense Programs. This work gives researchers the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic level and could spark further development of supercomputers that fit in the palm of the hand, or tiny devices to fight disease or heal injuries from inside our bodies. Also included in this science budget is $281 million for the Spallation Neutron Source and $247 million for fusion. The FY2001 budget continues to strongly support the Department's unique scientific user facilities. Each year over 15,000 university, industry and government-sponsored scientists conduct cutting edge experiments at these particle accelerators, high-flux neutron sources, synchrotron radiation light sources and other specialized facilities. Environmental Quality: $6.8 billion (an increase of $511 million, or 8 percent) to protect the environment and our workers. 

*******************

Article 672

LOOKING FORWARD We are entering a new era of space research. Continuous research opportunities on the ISS require a robust investigator community ready to take advantage of ISS resources and a focused research agenda prepared to guide NASA research directions in fulfillment of national priorities. The FY 2001 budget and its new initiatives reflect these emphases on the research community and its agenda.

FY 2001 Budget

The total FY 2001 budget request for OLMSA is $302.4 million, an increase of 10% over the FY 2000 budget of $274.7 million. This budget supports an expanding base of ground and space-based investigations, along with increasing cooperation with other federal research agencies. New initiatives include a consolidated research effort in Bioastronautics, to improve the health and productivity of humans in space; an expanded fundamental physics program into biophysics; and a coordinated effort in infotreaties, nanotechnologies, and their intersection with biology. Our new research directions will contribute to the health, safety, and performance of humans in space and on the ground.

The funds from the OLMSA budget which were transferred to the ISS development program in 1996 were exclusively associated with the development of research facilities and utilization support directly planned for the ISS. The transfer was made in order to enhance the integrated management of the ISS program and to ensure that ISS- specific research expenditures were closely matched to ISS readiness. As a result of necessary changes in the ISS assembly schedule, the life and microgravity research component on ISS has been deferred pending availability of the United States Laboratory (USL). The current funding profile will allow productive research operations to commence immediately with deployment of the USL in 2001. The first rack of the Human Research Facility; the first two Express racks for multidisciplinary scientific and industrial research; and the needed glovebox and freezer support equipment are all on schedule for 2001 deployment on the ISS.


*******************

Article 673

In doing so, NASA ensures that there is sufficient high-quality research in various scientific disciplines to enable them to select the most promising proposals for further testing on a flight platform. Thus, flight experimental protocols must pass two stages of quality review. The first phase selects standard ground-based projects of relevance to flight issues, and the second phase determines flight access. This stringent peer-review selects for the highest-quality research as well as that most likely to generate important data for the mission at hand. (NOTE: Figure not transmittable)FASEB recommends that the highest priority within NASA's Life Sciences research program be given to the expansion of the investigator-initiated, peer-reviewed Research and Analysis (R&A) program in order to build the predominantly ground-based research program necessary to support the NASA space station and flight program as a whole.

NASA has also sought to enhance its life sciences research efforts by leveraging funding through research collaborations with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and other agencies. A prime example is the NASA-NIH Neurolab Mission. These collaborations represent opportunities for both agencies. NIH institutes bring an enormous body of knowledge in their specialized areas, while NASA brings a special focus on a unique and challenging environment. Current partnerships with NIH include joint ground-based research on cardiovascular dysfunction, bone and muscle wasting and sensory-motor deficits relevant to gravity and the space-flight environment. NASA has also partnered with individual NIH institutes. A partnership with the National Institute on Deafness and other Communication Disorders will study the functional genomics of vestibular disorders and a study with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) will examine space radiation susceptibility and resistance at the genomic level. The latter instance represents an opportunity to apply our growing body of knowledge about the genome to specific health problems space travelers confront. NASA engineers and NCI biologists are also uniting their efforts to develop nanotechnologies for the diagnosis and treatment of various diseases.

Likewise, NASA is expanding its research and technology initiatives through collaboration with the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke in the area of neural regeneration and prostheses. If additional funding were available, NASA could further develop future partnerships with NIH to pursue the mission-oriented research priorities of both agencies and consequently, increase public benefit from both programs. For example, NASA expertise with muscle and bone wasting could be combined with that of the National Institute of Nursing Research to examine issues related to the long-term care problems of the bedridden. At the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, questions regarding the role of weight-beating activity during musculo-skeletal development could be uniquely addressed by NASA facilities and knowledge. And studies on drug effectiveness in inactive populations could be enhanced by collaboration of scientists funded by NASA and the National Institute of General Medical Sciences.


*******************

Article 674

There is no prescription that can eliminate the chance of failure. And success cannot be prescribed just by returning to past techniques for conducting missions. Imposition of prescriptions for mission success runs the risk of suffocating openness to change, risk taking, and willingness to fail. Prescription does not work because it does not allow for innovation and incorporation of new concepts and technology. We must recognize that we are at the leading edge of a transition toward a new generation of scientists and engineers. We need to examine failures experienced by NASA, other Government agencies, U.S. industry, and throughout Europe, Japan, and Russia. Within the broader context of the advanced development and science base of the United States, we are witnessing a demographic change. The engineering experience base of Apollo and the Cold War is retiring from the work environment, at the same time that NASA is facing very tough competition from dot.com organizations and the high tech industry for the best engineers and scientists emerging from our universities.

Simultaneously, we are witnessing the emergence of new technologies and new approaches to engineering. Soft computing, neural networks, and learning systems, are being incorporated into design and operations to enable more fault-tolerant systems rather than reverting to techniques of the past. The United States must be at the forefront of these new approaches to engineering, and must have a new engineering education curriculum to prepare its new engineers. NASA is fully engaged in these new directions in engineering and design tools, in information technology, nanotechnology, biotechnology and Intelligent Synthesis Environments. A key element of the Intelligent Synthesis Environment is Advanced and Collaborative Engineering Environments. These engineering environments were highlighted in the Phase I June, 1999 report of the National Research Council on Advanced Engineering Environments as a historic opportunity to create facilities and tools in collaboration with industry and academia to design, analyze, and conduct performance trade studies of complex systems with unprecedented levels of effectiveness in terms of time, cost and labor.

NASA has taken proactive steps with the development of such tools, methods and facilities at NASA Centers since the early 1990's. The Project Design Center at JPL, and the Integrated Mission Design Center at GSFC are two examples of the application of such environments early in the formulation process to define requirements, develop design concepts, conduct performance trade studies, assess technology benefits, and provide parametric cost data on complex NASA missions. These environments also provide an opportunity to capture lessons learned in systems engineering designs and analysis. All of these are responsive to some of the concerns raised in the MCO and FBC reports and clearly represent a visionary step to take full advantage of the information, design and analysis tools revolution. The Agency recognizes that further integration into the physical and cultural infrastructure of the Agency is needed. The Aero-Space Technology Enterprise has already taken steps with its Lead Centers to develop business plans to address such concerns.


*******************

Article 675

A prime example is the NASA-NIH Neurolab Mission. These collaborations represent opportunities for both agencies. NIH institutes bring an enormous body of knowledge in their specialized areas, while NASA brings a special focus on a unique and challenging environment. Current partnerships with NIH include joint ground-based research on cardiovascular dysfunction, bone and muscle wasting and sensory-motor deficits relevant to gravity and the space-flight environment. NASA has also partnered with individual NIH institutes, A partnership with the National Institute on Deafness and other Communication Disorders will. study the functional genornics of vestibular disorders and a study with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) will examine space radiation susceptibility and resistance at the gerlornic level. The latter instance represents an opportunity to apply our growing body of knowledge about the genome to specific health problems space travelers confront, NASA engineers and NO biologists are also uniting their efforts to develop nanotechnologics for the diagnosis and treatment of various diseases. Likewise, NASA is expanding its research and technology initiatives through collaboration with the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke in the area of neural regeneration and prostheses. If additional funding were available, NASA could further develop future partnerships with NIH to pursue the mission-oriented research priorities of both agencies and consequently, increase public benefit from both programs. For example, NASA expertise with muscle and bone wasting could be combined with that of the National Institute of Nursing Research to examine issues related to the long-term care problems of the bedridden. At the National Institute of Child Health and Hurnan Development, questions regarding the role of weight-bearing activity during musculo-skeletal development could be uniquely addressed by NASA facilities and knowledge. And studies on drug effectiveness in inactive populations Could be enhanced by collaboration of scientists funded by NASA and the National Institute of General Medical Sciences. FASEB therefore supports and encourages NASA's strategy to partner with NIH to develop programs of common interest to both agencies. I would like to address one other issue that FASEB has regarding the long-term quality and productivity of NASA's investigator- initiated research programs: the impact of decreased research access to space platforms due to cost-overruns in the International Space Station construction budgets. Since the Congress and the Administration decided it was in the nation's interest to pursue a space station, physiological research to support and treat astronauts residing on the station is required. 

*******************

Article 676

That is why it is important for young people to see NASA take risks. We want them to see that we are not afraid of failure, and that they should not be either." There is no prescription that can eliminate the chance of failure. And success cannot be prescribed just by returning to past techniques for conducting missions. Imposition of prescriptions for mission success runs the risk of suffocating openness to change, risk taking, and willingness to fail. Prescription does not work because it does not allow for innovation and incorporation of new concepts and technology. We must recognize that we are at the leading edge of a transition toward a new generation of scientists and engineers. We need to examine failures experienced by NASA, other Government agencies, U.S. industry, and throughout Europe, Japan, and Russia. Within the broader context of the advanced development and science base of the United States, we are witnessing a demographic change. The engineering experience base of Apollo and the Cold War is retiring from the work environment, at the same time that NASA is facing very tough competition from dot.com organizations and the high tech industry for the best engineers and scientists emerging from our universities. Simultaneously, we are witnessing the emergence of new technologies and new approaches to engineering. Soft computing, neural networks, and learning systems, are being incorporated into design and operations to enable more fault-tolerant systems rather than reverting to techniques of the past. The United States must be at the forefront of these new approaches to engineering, and must have a new engineering education curriculum to prepare its new engineers. NASA is fully engaged in these new directions in engineering and design tools, in information technology, nanotechnology, biotechnology and Intelligent Synthesis Environments. A key element of the Intelligent Synthesis Environment is Advanced and Collaborative Engineering Environments. These engineering environments were highlighted in the Phase I June, 1999 report of the National Research Council on Advanced Engineering Environments as a historic opportunity to create facilities and tools in collaboration with industry and academia to design, analyze, and conduct performance trade studies of complex systems with unprecedented levels of effectiveness in terms of time, cost and labor. NASA has taken proactive steps with the development of such tools, methods and facilities at NASA Centers since the early 1990's. The Project Design Center at JPL, and the Integrated Mission Design Center at GSFC are two examples of the application of such environments early in the formulation process to define requirements, develop design concepts, conduct performance trade studies, assess technology benefits, and provide parametric cost data on complex NASA missions. These environments also provide an opportunity to capture lessons learned in systems engineering designs and analysis. All of these are responsive to some of the concerns raised in the MCO and FBC reports and clearly represent a visionary step to take full advantage of the information, design and analysis tools revolution. The Agency recognizes that further integration into the physical and cultural infrastructure of the Agency is needed. 

*******************

Article 677

We plan to explore systems with varying degrees of sophistication and complexity, ranging from an unpowered mechanical apparatus to full-powered mechanical suits. The program will address key issues such as development of energy efficient actuation schemes and power sources with a relevant operational life, active control approaches that sense and enhance human motion, biomechanics and human-machine interfaces, and system design and integration. In FY 2000, the program is evaluating innovative actuation concepts using chemical energy sources such as hydrocarbon fuels to provide mechanical motion and is evaluating the efficacy of a complex system as well as some of the piece parts. In FY 2001, researchers will develop, characterize and test integrated technologies.

BEYOND SILICON The Beyond Silicon program is a new effort. It is aimed at maintaining the phenomenal progress in microelectronics innovation that has served military systems designers so well over the last 30 years. Taking advantage of advanced materials deposition and processing techniques, techniques that enable increasing control over material and device structures down to nanoscaie dimensions, the principal goal of the Beyond Silicon program is to achieve low-cost-to-manufacture, reliable, fast, and secure information systems critical to meet future military needs. Specifically, the program will investigate the feasibility, design, and development of devices and systems using approaches to electronic device designs that extend beyond today's practices that rely on scaling traditional complementary metal-oxide semiconductor devices. With a goal to develop new device capabilities, the program will explore options such as non-silicon-based semiconducting materials, including organic and amorphous materials. Components and systems leveraging quantum effects, and innovative approaches to computing designs incorporating these components will allow low-cost, seamless, pervasive computing, ultra-fast computing, and sensing and actuation devices. The program will start in FY 2001 by establishing program milestones to allow early identification of promising approaches that can lead to prototype demonstrations. In FY 2002, the program will demonstrate non-silicon-based transistor technologies using low bandgap materials capable of multi-gigahertz operation at bias voltages of less than one volt, as well as nanostructured materials for quantum-based electronic and optoelectronic device applications.

The rapid miniaturization of electronics has driven much of the development of advanced computation, communication and information systems for the DoD. To continue this trend far into the future, we believe that computers will be assembled using components such as molecules, and that the assembly will be accomplished using inexpensive chemical processes as opposed to today's painstaking fabrication methods. As a result of this thinking, DARPA is sponsoring a program in Molecular-scale Electronics (Moletronics). The long-term goal of the DARPA Moletronics program is to provide moderate computational power and high-density memory in an extremely small, low-power format (e.g., "a Pentium on a pin-head"). The opportunities are real; for instance, it is possible to perform calculations one billion times faster than the present generation microprocessor with significantly less power. 

*******************

Article 678

These new microsystern chips will provide the warfighter and unmanned reconnaissance vehicles with geolocation, communications and extended awareness capabilities. In FY 2001, the MEMS program will conduct remote-sensing and satellite inspection demonstrations with pico- satellites, and explore the use of nanotechnology for ultra-low-power molecular-level sensing and mechanical signal processing. The objective of the BioFluidic Chips (BioFlips) program is to demonstrate technologies for self- calibrating, reconfigurable, totally integrated bio-fluidic chips with local feedback control of physical/chemical parameters and on-chip, direct interface to sample collection. In FY 2000, its first year, BioFlips is identifying promising approaches to integration of fluidic chip components and demonstrating several sub-system approaches to achieve system specifications and to perform modeling of microscale fluidics to evaluate designs. In FY 2001, BioFlips will fabricate initial microfluidic chip components that enable total on-chip integration and demonstrate chip interfaces with body fluids for collection and delivery. BioFuTum (Bio:1NFo:PHYsicAL) DARPA's BioFutures thrust is a new effort in FY 2001, building on ongoing programs that have shown the glimmer of revolutionary advances for national security. 

+++++++++++++++++++

In FY 2001, researchers will develop, characterize and test integrated technologies. BEYOND SILICON The Beyond Silicon program is a new effort. It is aimed at maintaining the phenomenal progress in microelectronics innovation that has served military systems designers so well over the last 30 years. Taking advantage of advanced materials deposition and processing techniques, techniques that enable increasing control over material and device structures down to nanoscale dimensions, the principal goal of the Beyond Silicon program is to achieve low-cost-to-manufacture, reliable, fast, and secure information systems critical to meet future military needs. Specifically, the program will investigate the feasibility, design, and development of devices and systems using approaches to electronic device designs that extend beyond today's practices that rely on scaling traditional complementary metal-oxide seiaiconductor devices. With a goal to develop new device capabilities, the program will explore options such as non- silicon-based semiconducting materials, including organic and amorphous materials. Components and systems leveraging quantum effects, and innovative approaches to computing designs incorporating these components will allow low-cost, seamless, pervasive computing, ultra-fast computing, and sensing and actuation devices. The program will start in FY 2001 by establishing program milestones to allow early identification of promising approaches that can lead to prototype demonstrations. In FY 2002, the program will demonstrate non-silicon-based transistor technologies using low bandgap materials capable of multi-gigahertz operation at bias voltages of less than one volt, as well as nanostructured materials for quantum-based electronic and optoelectronic device applications. The rapid miniaturization of electronics has driven much of the development of advanced computation, communication and information systems for the DoD. To continue this trend far into the future, we believe that computers will be assembled using components such as molecules, and that the assembly will be accomplished using inexpensive chemical processes as opposed to today's painstaking fabrication methods. As a result of this thinking, DARPA is sponsoring a program in Molecular-scale Electronics (Moletronics). 

*******************

Article 679


As part of a nationwide program in high-resolution electron-microscopy applied to fundamental materials sciences research, a new imaging technique was developed that achieved the highest resolution image of a crystal structure ever recorded, resolving adjacent columns of silicon atoms separated by a scant 0.78 angstroms (3 billionths of an inch). The precise atomic-scale structure of a material controls the performance of materials for semiconductor devices, superconductors, and a host of other applications. Combined with improved electron imaging optics currently under development, this result promises to revolutionize the atomic-scale understanding of materials.

As part of its stewardship responsibility for neutron science, the Basic Energy Sciences (BES) program made substantial investments in human and facility resources for neutron science. In addition to the construction of the Spallation Neutron Source, all BES neutron science facilities are being upgraded and/or provided additional funds to increase hours of operation to enable a major increase in the national neutron science effort. Finally, a neutron science summer school is being supported to give students hands-on experience with the techniques of neutron scattering.As part of a major program to theoretically predict and then synthesize new materials with unusual chemical and physical properties, a new fullerene species, C36, has been synthesized and produced in bulk quantities for the first time. Fullerenes or "buckyballs" are hollow clusters of carbon atoms. They have been studied extensively since the Nobel prize-winning discovery of Ceo in 1985 (supported by BES). C36 is the smallest fullerene discovered to date and is characterized by unusual and potentially very useful properties. For example, in contrast to Ceo molecules, which interact only very weakly with one another, C36 molecules stick together - hence the nickname "stickyballs."

A powerful new instrument completed at the Combustion Research Facility promises to provide new information about how molecules dissociate when given enough internal energy. Understanding such processes is critically important for combustion, because, at the high temperatures of combustion, dissociation occurs in a variety of ways that are difficult to observe, model, and predict. With this new instrument, measurements are made one molecule at a time, making this a tool of unrivaled power for the validation of predictive models and theories of chemical reactions.


*******************

Article 680

The Technical Information Management program budget request is located within the Energy Supply appropriation. The DOE budget for FY 2001 requests $3,15 1.1 million for SC programs in the Science Appropriation and $9.3 million for the Technical Information Program in the Energy Supply Appropriation. The activities supported by this budget will build on SC's achievements in the physical and biological sciences, leverage our current investments for new opportunities, and permit new investments in individual research projects at our national laboratories and research universities across the country. The Departments science programs and infrastructure advance basic research and provide the technical foundations and resources for DOE's applied missions in national security, energy, and environment This request will enable SC to pursue new and challenging scientific opportunities in nanoscale science, engineering and technology to allow for the creation of new materials one atom at a time; advanced scientific computing research to advance all of our research programs by taking advantage of the prodigious increases in computing power that will occur in the next few years- molecular level understanding of microbes to harness nature's remarkable chemical factories, and bioengineering to use the science and engineering capabilities of our programs for new breakthroughs. In addition, the ongoing programs representing our core competencies will remain strong and vigorous. The requested funding will allow Fermilab to initiate Run II of the Tevatron Collider using the new Main Injector, which will increase its beam intensity by up to a factor of ten, and the correspondingly upgraded the Collider Detector at Fermilab (CDF) and the DO detector. 

*******************

Article 681

On September 7, 1999, Joseph H. Rothenberg, Associate Administrator for Space Flight, chartered a Space Shuttle Independent Assessment Team (SIAT). The SIAT performed an independent technical review of Space Shuttle systems and maintenance practices. Dr. Henry McDonald, Director of the Ames Research Center, chaired this joint NASA/DOD/contractor team. The SlAT concluded their activities and submitted a written report to Mr. Rothenberg on March 7, 2000. NASA forwarded copies of the report to Congress on March 9, 2000. The President's FY 2001 budget request has significant increases for investing in Shuttle safety that could be used to address these issues.

Each of these teams has made or will make recommendations that will help us improve our processes and make our operations safer and better. After careful review of these reports, NASA will share our plans to address the recommendations contained in the reports with the Congress and work with you and the Administration to ensure their timely implementation. We must continue to learn, not only from our successes, but also from our failures.Mr. Chairman, in spite of our difficulties, I believe the report card on NASA's performance reflects well on the support of the Committee and on behalf of the American people. While we accomplished a great deal in 1999, I see an even brighter future ahead. That does not mean we will not experience difficulties. We will. The ambitious programs we undertake are intolerant of human error and stress our human capabilities to detect and respond to anomalies. Our strategy to achieve major improvements in safety, taking advantage of emergent technical tools, such as the Intelligent Synthesis Environment, includes improving our systems management approaches, and continuing to infuse the philosophy and practice of safety in all that we undertake. This budget provides funding for the research into and development of the technologies that will improve the probability of mission success. The additional funding requested for personnel and facilities, Shuttle safety investments, the next generations of launch vehicles, general aviation aircraft, Intelligent Systems, Bioastronautics, and nanotechnologies should all be understood as key players in improving Safety.

FY 2001 Budget Overview

The FY 2001 budget represents a vote of confidence from the President that NASA is ready to tackle new challenges and opportunities in the New Millennium. This budget funds NASA's priorities and makes critical new investments to improve Space Shuttle safety, continue to build the ISS, enable a new generation of reusable launch vehicles that will improve the safety and reduce the cost of access to space through a new Space Launch Initiative, undertake new science and technology initiatives to enhance our understanding of our planet, the solar system and the universe, and invest in aeronautics, education, our workforce and facilities.


*******************

Article 682

I respectfully recommend that Congress and the NSF should consider at least doubling the average award allocated per investigator under this program. I believe this is consistent with NSF Director Colwell's call for a budget that soon would enable the Foundation to increase average grant size to $250,000. I believe this should be a goal for the NSF. The second is that it is important for NSF to find a management approach for new initiatives and large scale programs, including the IT program, that reduces the numbers of investigators who spend too much of their precious time during the full proposal process.

As with the earlier KDI program and the Water and Watersheds Program, it appears that only a very small fraction of the investigators who apply may actually have a reasonable chance of funding. In my opinion this not an efficient use of time of our best minds. In addition, low success rates of 6% to 15%, seen in some recent Foundation programs, further stress the peer review system and tend to demoralize some of the best young minds we are trying to retain as the basis for our nation's future research community. With the high quality of proposals I have seen at NSF and at USC, I believe we should not be rejecting 85% to 94% of those submitted. With that said, I would like to praise NSF for the initiatives upon which it has decided to focus in FY 2001. Let me say just a few words about the three largest initiatives: The Information Technology Research initiative will push the frontiers of high--end computing to expand our computer architecture, storage and retrieval, and networking capabilities. Increased funding for this initiative will allow for research breakthroughs in almost every scientific discipline, and because funding is included in the request to study the social and economic aspects of IT research, will allow for all Americans to benefit from these technologies. The new Nanoscale Science and Engineering initiative, a multi-- agency effort led by NSF, will enable researchers to work at the atomic and molecular levels as never before and encourage work at the interface of nano-, bio- and information technologies. This ability creates endless possibilities for design of new nanostructured materials, molecular self-assembly concepts, nanostructured systems in manufacturing, electronics, computer simulations and processes. The Biocomplexity in the Environment initiative is an appropriately ambitious program to integrate our understanding of dynamic systems ranging from simple organisms to whole ecosystems, from the transmission of waterborne contaminants to global climate change. As compassionate humans we invest large resources in understanding human biology and addressing human health needs. I believe this initiative is the beginning of a much needed focus to gain an understanding of how complex and integrated natural systems actually work. This knowledge is critical to understand and manage the health of the earth system upon which we all ultimately are dependent for life. With your permission Mr. Chairman, I would like to spend the remainder of my time discussing some of the important work sponsored by NSF that is happening at many research Universities.

I will give special focus to USC because I know it so well.

In response, in part, to guidance from the Congress to pay more attention to the needs of society in the near term and to comply with GPRA, I believe the NSF has established a number of innovative and effective agents of change within research Universities. They include Engineering Research Centers, Science and Technology Centers, the CAREER Program and others. These programs facilitate interdisciplinary approaches to address large problems that are both fascinating and of interest and recognized importance to society. These Programs also encourage the integration of research and education, which are two of the cornerstones of the NSF's mission. 

*******************

Article 683

In my opinion this not an efficient use of time of our best minds. In addition, low success rates of 6% to 15%, seen in some recent Foundation programs, further stress the peer review system and tend to demoralize some of the best young minds we are trying to retain as the basis for our nation's future research community. With the high quality of proposals I have seen at NSF and at USC, I believe we should not be rejecting 85% to 94% of those submitted. With that said, I would like to praise NSF for the initiatives upon which it has decided to focus in FY 2001. Let me say just a few words about the three largest initiatives: -The Information Technology Research initiative will push the frontiers of high-end computing to expand our computer architecture, storage and retrieval, and networking capabilities. Increased funding for this initiative will allow for research breakthroughs in almost every scientific discipline, and because funding is included in the request to study the social and economic aspects of IT research, will allow for all Americans to benefit from these technologies.

The new Nanoscale Science and Engineering initiative, a multi-agency effort led by NSF, will enable researchers to work at the atomic and molecular levels as never before and encourage work at the interface of nano-, bio- and information technologies. This ability creates endless possibilities for design of new nanostructured materials, molecular self-assembly concepts, nanostructured systems in manufacturing, electronics, computer simulations and processes. - The Biocomplexity in the Environment initiative is an appropriately ambitious program to integrate our understanding of dynamic systems ranging from simple organisms to whole ecosystems, from the transmission of waterbome contaminants to global climate change. As compassionate humans we invest large resources in understanding human biology and addressing human health needs. I believe this initiative is the beginning of a much needed focus to gain an understanding of how complex and integrated natural systems actually work. This knowledge is critical to understand and manage the health of the earth system upon which we all ultimately are dependent for life. With your permission Mr. Chairman, I would like to spend the remainder of my time discussing some of the important work sponsored by NSF that is happening at many research Universities. I will give special focus to USC because I know it so well. In response, in part, to guidance from the Congress to pay more attention to the needs of society in the near term and to comply with GPRA, I believe the NSF has established a number of innovative and effective agents of change within research Universities. 

*******************

Article 684

Because of the increasing globalization of the private sector, our workforce needs to be the best trained in the world in order for us to remain competitive. It is ironic that during one of the most exciting times the world has ever witnessed in terms of scientific and technological wonders, it is difficult to convince young people to embrace careers in science. It is just as difficult to convince the general public of the importance of understanding scientific advances that will shape their daily lives and the lives of their children and grand-children in the years to come. A population that is more highly educated on scientific principles is in a much better position to make the rational choices that will become necessary as science and technology continue to play larger roles in our daily lives. In order to obtain a better understanding of the underlying biological, chemical and physical principles that govern. the world around us, it is important to conceive of novel scientific and analytical tools to characterize these systems at the nanoscale, molecular, atomic and subatomic levels. It is this integrated understanding that will provide scientists and engineers with the insights necessary to cross the boundaries between the physical, biological and environmental sciences. This is one of the most exciting frontiers in science and one in which we must retain leadership. Only the federal government is in a position to fund such programs. The private sector has a much narrower focus for its research objectives. Corporate support for academic research tends to be aimed at two or three-year development plans for a particular existing product line or business unit. This tends to hamper the ability of the academic investigators to execute the type of speculative investigations that are at the heart of real innovation. The training of young people and the development of basic scientific tools are not a top priority for corporate research directors. Even though there is a constant demand from the corporate world for a well-trained and diverse work force and novel research equipment, it is not likely that significant funds will ever be forthcoming from industrial sources for these purposes.

*******************

Article 685

One of the things that I wish I could do a better job of as president, is sparking the interest and understanding of very single citizen in the work you do, of everyone's ability to see how profoundly significant what goes on in your labs and in your minds, is to their future.

I do think the American people are coming a long way on that, and I tried to talk in the State of the Union in ways that would help. I also try to think of little ways to illustrate how you are changing our conception of the most basic things; what is big and what is small, what is long and what is short. Dr. Lane has actually given me a primer of what nanotechnology is, and I can carry on a fairly meaningful subject (sic) about something that is totally unfathomable to me. (Laughter.)

And last year, Neil Armstrong and his colleagues came back to the White House to celebrate the 30th anniversary of his walk on the Moon. And while he did it, they -- as a part of the ceremony, he gave me, just on loan, a vacuum-packed Moon rock, which if you see the photographs now of the Oval Office with the two chairs and the couches and the table in between, the Moon rock is now visible to the world that sees it.


*******************

Article 686

While we have noted the ability of technology to increase productivity, we should not ignore the way that some technologies are driving the economy and our nation in a new direction. Dramatic advances in biotechnology, for example, are expanding our productivity across new industries and different industry sectors, ranging from agriculture to medicine. New developments are on the horizon which we have only begun to fathom. Nanotechnology holds tremendous promise, and the Global Positioning System is adding a completely new dimension to navigation and recreation. These developments can lead, along with new automotive technologies, to such things as a car that could literally drive itself, and know where you like to stop to pick up a gallon of milk on your way home. Such new productivity, across new industries, will allow us to continue our economic growth.

As we set our policies, we must continue to recognize that we are dealing with a globally interdependent economy. Although we have established ourselves as the preeminent economic power in the world at the turn of the millennium, all those here can recall a time, not long ago, when we struggled as a nation in the face of competition from Europe and the economies of the Pacific Rim nations. Free trade and globalization are circumstances which foster competition, and we are currently enjoying the benefits of that struggle.

As indicated in our budget documents which you have received, the Technology Administration plans to play a major role in helping America remain economically competitive. Our budget request includes funding that will allow us to continue assisting industry to move fully into the innovation age. Whether the request is geared toward nanotechnology research and partnerships at NIST or to helping our auto manufacturers and their suppliers use the Internet to enhance productivity, the overall goal remains the same: Keeping the American economy strong.

Our budget request for the Technology Administration overall totals almost $722 million, with the vast majority of that amount going to the National Institute of Standards and Technology. NIST's request totals $713 million, representing an increase of about $77 million over the FY2000 level. The Office of the Under Secretary and the Office of Technology Policy request is $8.7 million, which, I'm sure the Committee will agree, is a modest increase, totaling only $500,000 over our 2001 base. The budget highlights for the Technology Administration also show some of the expanded work we plan to do in exciting areas such as electronic commerce, computer security and nanotechnology, and I ask that the highlights be entered into the record at this point.

NIST: Supporting Industry through Technology Development, Measurements, and Standards


*******************

Article 687

CONCLUSION

Mr. Chairman, despite the challenges for our agency that I have highlighted, I am very encouraged about the future of the PTO and our Nation's intellectual property system. The United States is blessed with the greatest intellectual property system in the world, and I am deeply committed to ensuring that we retain -- and build upon -- this status well into the new millennium.

Whatever technology comes along -- and the possibilities in areas like nanotechnology are almost unimaginable -- I am confident that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office will be ready, with the resources and proven know-how, to ensure that innovative creations become enduring global industries. I look forward to continuing to work with this Subcommittee to help ensure that PTO is given the resources and flexibility it needs to do just that.

Thank you very much.


*******************

Article 688

- The Bible makes good weights and measures -- the foundation of the science of metrology -- a divine mandate: "(But) thou shalt have a perfect and just weight, a perfect and just measure shalt thou have: that thy days may be lengthened in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee," to quote from Deuteronomy.

- The Koran is equally outspoken, "O my people! serve Allah, you have no god other than He, and do not give short measure and weight," a command echoed repeatedly.

I don't necessarily claim a divine mandate for our work. The point is that commerce is enabled by -- indeed, critically relies on-- an infrastructure of science and technology. As true as this was in the distant past when these lines were written, it is even more so today when technology has become the major driver of national economies and words like "nanotechnology" are moving from the scientific journals to the business journals.

For 100 years the NIST Measurement and Standards Laboratories have provided this essential scientific and technological foundation for commerce to the Nation and the world.

You cannot achieve this by being a passive custodian of dusty weights and measuring sticks. Modem technology, with advances in electronics, information technology, biotechnology, materials, and industrial processing coming at an extraordinary rate, and modem commerce, with global markets and global competition, both demand our utmost efforts to meet the metrology needs of industry in a timely fashion.


*******************

Article 689

The economic force unleashed by the Internet will be even more powerful within and among businesses, where past problems are being rectified by enhancing the availability and timeliness of information. We are currently seeing this process occur at some of the nation's larger and more established businesses. Industry, using the benefits of technology, is beginning to consolidate its supply chains through the use of the Internet. While we have noted the ability of technology to increase productivity, we should not ignore the way that some technologies are driving the economy and our nation in a new direction. Dramatic advances in biotechnology, for example, are expanding our productivity across new industries and different industry sectors, ranging from agriculture to medicine. New developments are on the horizon which we have only begun to fathom. Nanotechnology holds tremendous promise, and the Global Positioning System is adding a completely new dimension to navigation and recreation. These developments can lead, along with new automotive technologies, to such things as a car that could literally drive itself, and know where you like to stop to pick up a gallon of milk on your way home. Such new productivity, across new industries, will allow us to continue our economic growth. As we set our policies, we must continue to recognize that we are dealing with a globally interdependent economy. Although we have established ourselves as the preeminent economic power in the world at the turn of the millennium, all those here can recall a time, not long ago, when we struggled as a nation in the face of competition from Europe and the economies of the Pacific Rim nations. Free trade and globalization are circumstances which foster competition, and we are currently enjoying the benefits of that struggle. As indicated in our budget documents which you have received, the Technology Administration plans to play a major role in helping America remain, economically competitive. Our budget request includes funding that will allow us to continue assisting industry to move fully into the innovation age. Whether the request is geared toward nanotechnology research and partnerships at NIST or to helping our auto manufacturers and their suppliers use the Internet to enhance productivity, the overall goal remains the same: Keeping the American economy strong. Our budget request for the Technology Administration overall totals almost $722 million, with the vast majority of that amount going to the National Institute of Standards and Technology. NIST's request totals $713 million, representing an increase of about $77 million over the FY2000 level. The Office of the Under Secretary and the Office of Technology Policy request is $8.7 million, which, I'm sure the Committee will agree, is a modest increase, totaling only $500,000 over our 2001 base. The budget highlights for the Technology Administration also show some of the expanded work we plan to do in exciting areas such as electronic commerce, computer security and nanotechnology, and I ask that the highlights be entered into the record at this point. NIST: Supporting Industry through Technology Development, Measure me, its, and Standards The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) will celebrate its centennial in 2001. Over the past century, NIST has helped ensure America's technological superiority and economic prosperity through myriad achievements that have advanced the measurements, standards, and technology needed by U.S. industry to make world- class products. The budget requested for fiscal year 2001 will enable NIST to work on the cutting-edge science and technology infrastructure needed to strengthen and safeguard America's prosperity and ensure its industrial competitiveness in the 21't century. 

*******************

Article 690

These "just weights and measures" are not only virtuous; they pay off in economic benefits for the country. Economic impact studies testify to this. Recent studies have documented, for example, that: - A NIST program on semiconductor power device modeling has a benefit-to-cost ratio of 23 to 1 and a significant impact on industrial development of modeling tools. In turn, these tools enable improvements in automobile ignition systems, appliances, and other products. - A NIST system used to identify economical fire safety retrofits showed savings of $550 million in hospitals and nursing homes from a research investment of $4.5 million - The NIST program to develop environmental measurement standards for sulfur in fuel oil, which has created 27 such standards in the past 15 years, cost $3.6 million and has produced a net value to society of $409 million through improved measurements in the oil industry. There are $78 million in additional environmental benefits, according to a .new study by the Research Triangle Institute. That's a net return of over $135 on every dollar spent. Future Priorities The pace of modem industry and commerce leaves us with no time to rest on our laurels. The FY 2001 budget will enable NIST to continue our long tradition of service to science and industry and to lay the necessary groundwork for the future. Our priorities for 2001 include, among others: Our budget request includes a $ 1 0 million initiative to accelerate the commercialization of nanotechnologies by developing measurements and standards for nanodevices, nanomagnetics, nanornanipulation, and nanocharacterizations. Support for the semiconductor and electronics industries with new measurement techniques, and standards needed for new microelectronic devices - including atom-based dimensional standards and measurement procedures for the next-generation micro- and nano-electronic devices. In rapidly changing industries like semiconductor lithography we do not have the luxury of waiting to see what directions technology will take and then developing the necessary measurement support. Often we must pursue two or even three possible paths simultaneously without knowing which one will finally be adopted by the industry in order to ensure that the necessary measurement capabilities will be there when needed. We propose a $4.5 million initiative to support the increased use of combinatorial research methods in chemical, materials and biotechnology industries. Combinatorial methods, in which hundreds or thousands of experiments are conducted in parallel with key parameters varied systematically, have been used in the pharmaceutical industry to dramatically cut research costs and time, but they have yet to be widely adopted in other industries. 

*******************

Article 691

In our transition to a performance-based organization (PBO), we would like to work within the Administration and with the Congress to ensure that the PTO has sufficient resources, financial flexibility, and appropriate oversight to operate as a first-rate PBO. Naturally, the Secretary of Commerce is interested in this matter as well. CONCLUSION Mr. Chairman, despite the challenges for our agency that I have highlighted, I am very encouraged about the future of the PTO and our Nation's intellectual property system. The United States is blessed with the greatest intellectual property system in the world, and I am deeply committed to ensuring that we retain -- and build upon -- this status well into the new millennium. Whatever technology comes along -- and the possibilities in areas like nanotechnology are almost unimaginable -- I am confident that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office will be ready, with the resources and proven know-how, to ensure that innovative creations become enduring global industries. I look forward to continuing to work with this Subcommittee to help ensure that PTO is given the resources and flexibility it needs to do just that. Thank you very much.


*******************

Article 692

CONCLUSION

Mr. Chairman, despite the challenges for our agency that I have highlighted, I am very encouraged about the future of the PTO and our Nation's intellectual property system. The United States is blessed with the greatest intellectual property system in the world, and I am deeply committed to ensuring that we retain -- and build upon -- this status well into the new millennium.

Whatever technology comes along -- and the possibilities in areas like nanotechnology are almost unimaginable -- I am confident that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office will be ready, with the resources and proven know-how, to ensure that innovative creations become enduring global industries. I look forward to continuing to work with this Subcommittee to help ensure that PTO is given the resources and flexibility it needs to do just that.

Thank you very much.


*******************

Article 693

While we have noted the ability of technology to increase productivity, we should not ignore the way that some technologies are driving the economy and our nation in a new direction. Dramatic advances in biotechnology, for example, are expanding our productivity across new industries and different industry sectors, ranging from agriculture to medicine. New developments are on the horizon which we have only begun to fathom. Nanotechnology holds tremendous promise, and the Global Positioning System is adding a completely new dimension to navigation and recreation. These developments can lead, along with new automotive technologies, to such things as a car that could literally drive itself, and know where you like to stop to pick up a gallon of milk on your way home. Such new productivity, across new industries, will allow us to continue our economic growth.

As we set our policies, we must continue to recognize that we are dealing with a globally interdependent economy. Although we have established ourselves as the preeminent economic power in the world at the turn of the millennium, all those here can recall a time, not long ago, when we struggled as a nation in the face of competition from Europe and the economies of the Pacific Rim nations. Free trade and globalization are circumstances which foster competition, and we are currently enjoying the benefits of that struggle.

As indicated in our budget documents which you have received, the Technology Administration plans to play a major role in helping America remain, economically competitive. Our budget request includes funding that will allow us to continue assisting industry to move fully into the innovation age. Whether the request is geared toward nanotechnology research and partnerships at NIST or to helping our auto manufacturers and their suppliers use the Internet to enhance productivity, the overall goal remains the same: Keeping the American economy strong.

Our budget request for the Technology Administration overall totals almost $722 million, with the vast majority of that amount going to the National Institute of Standards and Technology. NIST's request totals $713 million, representing an increase of about $77 million over the FY2000 level. The Office of the Under Secretary and the Office of Technology Policy request is $8.7 million, which, I'm sure the Committee will agree, is a modest increase, totaling only $500,000 over our 2001 base. The budget highlights for the Technology Administration also show some of the expanded work we plan to do in exciting areas such as electronic commerce, computer security and nanotechnology, and I ask that the highlights be entered into the record at this point.


*******************

Article 694

NIST, as an institution, will be turning 100 next year. There will be speeches, reminiscences, and respect paid to some of the memorable staff members and achievements of the past century. But that is, after all,. the past, and our vision has to be fixed firmly on the future. We have proposed an ambitious program of initiatives to meet the nation's industrial and commercial needs in the new millennium. We are addressing issues - electronic commerce, information infrastructure protection - that were not even imagined when we first opened our doors. We are moving aggressively in new, rapidly developing fields such as nanotechnology and combinatorial chemistry to ensure that U.S. industry has the measurement and analysis tools it needs. Through the Advanced Technology Program we are partnering with industry to deliver tangible results in the form of innovative new technologies that are bringing economic benefits to the nation - benefits made possible by those technologies and the program that made them happen. Through our outreach programs like the Baldrige National Quality Program and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, we are promoting quality business practices, and improved performance and productivity nationwide. Above all, we are striving to provide the nation's scientific, engineering, and business communities with what they have been able to count on from us since 1901: technical excellence. Thank you for your time. I would be happy to answer any questions the Subcommittee might have.


*******************

Article 695

Science

For the Office of Science programs which conduct basic research in energy related areas, we request $3.2 billion, an increase of $337 million, or 12 percent above the comparable FY 2000 level. This reflects our commitment to keep America at the cutting edge, and will provide continued strong support for DOE's core national scientific infrastructure, state-of-the-art facilities, and fundamental research programs. The major elements of the Science budget include: - $715 million for High Energy Physics, up $11 million; - $370 million for Nuclear Physics, up $14 million; - $445 million for Biological and Environmental Research (BER), up $11 million; - $10 billion for Basic Energy Sciences (BES), up $236 million; - $182 million for Advanced Scientific Computing Research, up $55 million; and - $247 million for Fusion Energy Sciences, approximately the same level as the FY 2000 appropriation

It includes $84 million for research and development (an increase Of $36 million above the comparable FY 2000 level) into extreme miniaturized technologies, or "nanotechnology," to give us the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic level. This expands ongoing DOE research that will profoundly affect information technology, energy, the environment, medicine, and national security. It could spark the production of supercomputers that fit into the palm of your hand, or tiny devices to fight disease and repair injuries from inside our bodies.

We are also expanding the frontiers of DOE's life sciences work by emphasizing Microbial Cells ($12 million) and Bioengineering ($6.7 million). The study of microbes, particularly those that have survived extreme environments for billions of years, may unlock mysteries that will help us solve problems in energy production and use, environmental cleanup, medicine, and agricultural and industrial processing. Engineering a microbe that inexpensively degrades cellulose could turn an enormous part of society's wastes into useful sources of energy. We are seeking a better understanding of their genetics so that one day we might design or engineer customized microbes to meet DOE program needs, for example, to clean up specific environmental hazards.


*******************

Article 696

The Department of Energy is, at its heart, a science agency; in fact, 40 percent of DOE's FY 2001 budget qualifies as R&D in the federal budget. We will spend a total of $7.1 billion in R&D in FY 2000 and plan to spend $7.7 billion in FY 2001, an increase of $0.6 billion, or 8 percent. Science For the Office of Science programs which conduct basic research in energy related areas, we request $3.2 billion, an increase of $337million, or 12 percent above the comparable FY 2000 level. This reflects our commitment to keep America at the cutting edge, and will provide continued strong support for DOE's core national scientific infrastructure, state-of-the-art facilities, and fundamental research programs. The major elements of the Science budget include: $715 million for High Energy Physics, up $11 million; $3 70 million for Nuclear Physics, up $14 million; $445 million for Biological and Environmental Research (BER), up $11 million; $ 1. 0 billion for Basic Energy Sciences (BES), up $23 6 million; $182 million for Advanced Scientific Computing Research, up $ 55 million; and $247 million for Fusion Energy Sciences, approximately the same level as the FY 2000 appropriation. It includes $84 million for research and development (an increase of $36 million above the comparable FY 2000 level) into extreme miniaturized technologies, or "nanotechnology," to give us the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic level. This expands ongoing DOE research that will profoundly affect information technology, energy, the environment, medicine, and national security. It could spark the production of supercomputers that fit into the palm of your hand, or tiny devices to fight disease and repair injuries from inside our bodies. We are also expanding the frontiers of DOE's life sciences work by emphasizing Microbial Cells ($12 million) and Bioengineering ($6.7 million). The study of microbes, particularly those that have survived extreme environments for billions of years, may unlock mysteries that will help us solve problems in energy production and use, environmental cleanup, medicine, and agricultural and industrial processing. Engineering a microbe that inexpensively degrades cellulose could turn an enormous part of society's wastes into useful sources of energy. We are seeking a better understanding of their genetics so that one day we might design or engineer customized microbes to meet DOE program needs, for example, to clean up specific environmental hazards. DOE's Bioengineering science contributes enormously in the development of biologics, materials, processes, implants, devices, and information systems needed for tissue engineering, artificial bones, joints, and other organ development. Ongoing research at the Department's national laboratories in: mathematical simulation, sensors, micro-engineering, imaging, materials, lasers, electrochemistry, and fiber-optics present real opportunities to tap DOE's unique capabilities to advance bioengineering applications and technologies. The Office of Science plays an important role ($2.7 million) in a $19.8 million DOE-wide Robotics and Intelligent Machines Initiative co-managed with the Offices of Environmental Management ($12.9 million) and Defense Programs ($3.9 million). 

*******************

Article 697

We've also worked to accelerate the federal investment in research and development and to conditions that help you extend it by an extension of the research and experimentation tax credit, and by expanding our national science and technology budget every year. After all, government-funded research helped to spark everything from the Internet to communication satellites. This year we have proposed an increase of $600 million in information technology research, and almost $500 million for a major new initiative in nanotechnology -- the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic and molecular level, something that will, in my view, give you a whole new generation of revolutions in this remarkable area.

Now, we can -- we only know some of the likely developments as a result of this R&D. We know it is highly likely that soon we'll have technology that will put all the contents in the Library of Congress in a device the size of a sugar cube, and find and treat cancerous tumors when they're just a few cells in size, so that you won't have to have the ravages of side effects of cancer treatment, and the effectiveness of the treatment will be far greater than it is today.

And those are only two things. There are many other things. If this nanotechnology business really works and we can figure out how to, in effect, use that to develop information storage, then what will happen within a reasonably few years, is literally beyond the limits of my poor imagination. So I will say again --


*******************

Article 698

research and experimentation tax credit, and by expanding our national science and technology budget every year. After all, government-funded research helped to spark everything from the Internet to communication satellites. This year we have proposed an increase of $600 million in information technology research, and almost $500 million for a major new initiative in nanotechnology -- the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic and molecular level, something that will, in my view, give you a whole new generation of revolutions in this remarkable area.

Now, we can -- we only know some of the likely developments as a result of this R&D. We know it is highly likely that soon we'll have technology that will put all the contents in the Library of Congress in a device the size of a sugar cube, and find and treat cancerous tumors when they're just a few cells in size, so that you won't have to have the ravages of side effects of cancer treatment, and the effectiveness of the treatment will be far greater than it is today.

And those are only two things. There are many other things. If this nanotechnology business really works and we can figure out how to, in effect, use that to develop information storage, then what will happen within a reasonably few years, is literally beyond the limits of my poor imagination. So I will say again --


*******************

Article 699

But we have a lot of our -- our urban school systems have school buildings where the average age is 65 or 70 years of the school buildings, and it's a very difficult problem. But we're on our way to universal student access because of the e-rate. Otherwise, without the e-rate, a lot of these schools could never have afforded to hook up, and a lot of these small libraries in rural areas could never have afforded to hook up.

We've also worked to accelerate the federal investment in research and development and to conditions that help you extend it by an extension of the research and experimentation tax credit, and by expanding our national science and technology budget every year. After all, government-funded research helped to spark everything from the Internet to communication satellites. This year we have proposed an increase of $600 million in information technology research, and almost $500 million for a major new initiative in nanotechnology -- the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic and molecular level, something that will, in my view, give you a whole new generation of revolutions in this remarkable area.

Now, we can -- we only know some of the likely developments as a result of this R&D. We know it is highly likely that soon we'll have technology that will put all the contents in the Library of Congress in a device the size of a sugar cube, and find and treat cancerous tumors when they're just a few cells in size, so that you won't have to have the ravages of side effects of cancer treatment, and the effectiveness of the treatment will be far greater than it is today.

And those are only two things. There are many other things. If this nanotechnology business really works and we can figure out how to, in effect, use that to develop information storage, then what will happen within a reasonably few years, is literally beyond the limits of my poor imagination. So I will say again --

But we do know this. We know that, whatever happens, the government's role, in my judgment, should be to try to establish the conditions in which good people working hard will be rewarded in a way that will be positive for society as a whole; and then to give people the tools to make sure that everybody has a chance no matter where they start in life. That, I think to me, will in all probability be the key responsibilities of government for quite a long while to come.


*******************

Article 700

The budget calls for $182 million for Advanced Scientific Computing Research (ASCR) to increase computer modeling and simulation research and development.

Microbial genomics, an outgrowth of the Department's pioneering work in the Human Genome Program, is expanding efforts in microbial cell research. This research, which involves the study of organisms that have survived and thrived in an extreme and inhospitable environment, could hold the key to advance energy production and use, environmental cleanup, medicine, and agricultural and industrial processing.

Nanotechnology, or research and development into extreme miniaturized technologies, is funded at $91 million.



This work gives researchers the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic level and could spark further development of supercomputers that fit in the palm of the hand, or tiny devices to fight disease or heal injuries from inside our bodies.

Also included in this year's science budget is $281 million for the Spallation Neutron Source and $247 million for fusion.

Environmental Quality: $6.8 billion (an increase of $511 million, or 8 percent) to improve the quality of life for millions of Americans. Within this business line, the Environmental Management budget of $6.3 billion supports proposals to continue our efforts to meet cleanup obligations to communities throughout the country. This amount is required to ensure that each cleanup site meets safety and legal requirements, supports accelerated cleanup and site closure, and maintains others critical environmental priorities. It will allow the Department to continue to implement the agreement I reached last year with the Governors of Colorado, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Washington on a Statement of Principles laying the foundation for a cooperative working relationship between DOE and the states with DOE cleanup sites.


*******************

Article 701

Purchase power and wheeling activities financed through this method will be phased out in annual decrements by the end of FY 2004. Science: $3.2 billion (an increase of $33 7 million, or 12 percent) to strengthen our science programs and provide the knowledge base for future innovation, thereby improving America's long-term position in an increasingly competitive world economy. We continue to promote a strong national scientific infrastructure and provide the technical foundations for our applied missions. The FY 2001 budget includes initiatives to advance ongoing work at the frontiers of nanoscience, scientific computing, microbial genomics, robotics, bioengineering, and it will allow us to increase the use of our scientific facilities. The budget calls for $182 million for Advanced Scientific Computing Research (ASCR) to increase computer modeling and simulation research and development. Microbial genomics, an outgrowth of the Department's pioneering work in the Human Genome Program, is expanding efforts in microbial cell research. This research, which involves the study of organisms that have survived and thrived in an extreme and inhospitable environment, could hold the key to advance energy production and use, environmental cleanup, medicine, and agricultural and industrial processing. Nanotechnology, or research and development into extreme miniaturized technologies, is funded at $91 million. This work gives researchers the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic level and could spark further development of supercomputers that fit in the palm of the hand, or tiny devices to fight disease or heal injuries from inside our bodies. Also included in this year's science budget is $281 million for the Spallation Neutron Source and $247 million for fusion. Environmental Quality: $6.8 billion (an increase of $511 million, or 8 percent) to improve the quality of life for millions of Americans. Within this business line, the Environmental Management budget of $6.3 billion supports proposals to continue our efforts to meet cleanup obligations to communities throughout the country. This amount is required to ensure that each cleanup site meets safety and legal requirements, supports accelerated cleanup and site closure, and maintains others critical environmental priorities. It will allow the Department to continue to implement the agreement I reached last year with the Governors of Colorado, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Washington on a Statement of Principles laying the foundation for a cooperative working relationship between DOE and the states with DOE cleanup sites. The request features new initiatives to accelerate cleanup and protect health and safety at Gaseous Diffusion Plants (GDPs) in Portsmouth, Ohio, and Paducah, Kentucky. Last summer, after reports of alleged health and environmental problems surfaced at Paducah I announced a strategy to investigate, identify and remedy any past or remaining health, safety and environmental problems at these plants. I appointed an investigation team that made recommendations which resulted in a request for funding to achieve health surveillance, safety assessments, and environmental remediation goals within a rapid timeframe. The Administration also has submitted a $26 million FY 2000 Supplemental Budget Request to Congress to address additional concerns. 

*******************

Article 702

The DOE budget for FY 2001 requests $3,151,065;000 for SC programs in the Science Appropriation and $9,302,000 for the Technical Information Program in the Energy Supply Appropriation. The activities supported by this budget will build on SC's achievements in the physical and biological sciences, leverage our current investments for new opportunities, and permit new investments in individual research projects at our national laboratories and research universities across the country. The Department's science programs and infrastructure advance basic research and provide the technical foundations and resources for DeE's applied missions in national security, energy, and environment. 

This request will enable SC to pursue new and challenging scientific opportunities in nanoscale science, engineering, and technology to allow for the creation of new materials one atom at a time; advanced scientific computing research to advance all of our research programs by taking advantage of the prodigious increases in computing power that will occur in the next few years; molecular level understanding of microbes to harness nature's remarkable chemical factories; and bioengineering to use the science and engineering capabilities of our programs for new breakthroughs. In addition, the ongoing programs representing our core competencies will remain strong and vigorous.

The requested funding will allow Fermilab to initiate Run II of the Tevatron Collider using the new Main Injector, which will increase its beam intensity by up to a factor often, and the correspondingly upgraded CDF and DO detectors. Run I discovered the top quark and Run H will allow a search for the origin of mass and new symmetries in the fundamental interactions of matter. Late in FY 2000, a major new nuclear physics facility at the Brookhaven National Laboratory called the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) begins colliding gold nuclei to create a form of matter that has not existed since the Big Bang and the first results are expected in FY 2001. Encouraging hints of this "quark-gluon plasma" have recently been detected at CERN. The B Factory at Stanford Liner Accelerator Center (SLAC), designed to study the subtle matterantimatter asymmetry in our matter-dominated world, will have its first full year of running at full design luminosity. 

*******************

Article 703

The Department of Energy's total FY 2001 request for new budget authority for its civilian energy R&D and science programs under this Subcommittee's jurisdiction is $5.16 billion, an increase of $463.4 million--or 9.9 percent--above the FY 2000 appropriated level, and $82.9 million above the level authorized by the Committee's two DOE authorization bills, H.R. 1655 and H.R. 1656. 

The DOE Office of Science's FY 2001 budget request of over $3.15 billion--an increase of $336.5 million, or 12 percent, the largest single DOE program under the Science Committee's jurisdiction. On the surface, this appears to be a healthy request, but the details show another story. The request includes more than $290 million in increases for just two programs--$236.3 million, or 30.3 percent, for the Basic Energy Sciences program and $54.1 million, or 42.3 percent, for the Advanced Scientific Computing Research program. Most of the increase in the Basic Energy Sciences program is devoted to the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS)--and we are pleased that the Department has met the Committee's criteria contained in H.R. 1655, which included reforms that got this important science project back on track. The other Science programs seeing the largest increases are DOE's Information Initiative and its portion of the National Nanotechnology Initiative, both of which this Committee strongly supports.

All other programs within the Office of Science show modest budget request increases when compared to the current funding level. Significantly, on a comparable basis with FY 2000 funding, High Energy Physics Facility Operations and Fusion Energy Sciences funding actually decrease in FY 2001. And, I might add that the FY 2001 request levels for almost all Office of Science programs--including High Energy Physics, Nuclear Physics, Chemical Sciences, Engineering and Geosciences, as well as Fusion Energy Sciences--are significantly below the levels authorized by H.R. 1655, which passed the House unanimously last September. This will result in reduced operating times for a number of High Energy and Fusion Energy Sciences facilities.


*******************

Article 704

On the surface, this appears to be a healthy request, but the details show another story. The request includes more than $290 million in increases for just two programs-$236.3 million, or 30.3 percent, for the Basic Energy Sciences program and $54.1 million, or 42.3 percent, for the Advanced Scientific Computing Research program. Most of the increase in the Basic Energy Sciences program is devoted to the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS)-and we are pleased that the Department has met the Committee's criteria contained in H.R. 1655, which included reforms that got this important science project back on track. The other Science programs seeing the largest increases are DOE's Information Initiative and its portion of the National Nanotechnology Initiative, both of which this Committee strongly supports. All other programs within the Office of Science show modest budget request increases when compared to the current funding level. Significantly, on a comparable basis with FY 2000 funding, High Energy Physics Facility Operations and Fusion Energy Sciences funding actually decrease in FY 2001. And, I might add that the FY 2001 request levels for almost all Office of Science programs-including High Energy Physics, Nuclear Physics, Chemical Sciences, Engineering and Geosciences, as well as Fusion Energy Sciences-are significantly below the levels authorized by H.R. 1655, which passed the House unanimously last September. This will result in reduced operating times for a number of High Energy and Fusion Energy Sciences facilities. I also want to say that I am particularly concerned with the manner in which the final decision to close the Brookhaven National Lab High-Flux-Beam- Reactor was conducted, independent of the needs of science and completely smacking of political expediency.

*******************

Article 705

DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY MARCH 1, 2000 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to working with other members of the Subcommittee during the second session of the 106th Congress. Since the House passed a bill last year authorizing funding for DOE for Fiscal Year 2001, I see today's hearing as an opportunity for oversight of certain departmental programs. There are a number of new and exciting initiatives that seem to build upon the current directions in scientific research, as well as a number of old initiatives that seem to have been reintroduced in a new format. Hopefully, our witnesses can help us to better understand the merit of the new initiatives such as nanotechnology and nanoscience, robotics and intelligent machines, and bioengineering as well as the new twist on the important initiatives such as information technology. The status of the Spallation Neutron Source which according to the project manager and DOE is evidently back on track is undoubtedly of interest to many Members on both sides of the aisle, and so I look forward to your testimony on that project. I'd be interested in hearing about the role of the newly introduced sixth lab in the collaboration: Thomas Jefferson Lab. I would also note the shutdown of the High Flux Beam Reactor at Brookhaven and that of the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor at Princeton. Were these reactors shut down to make room for expansion in other areas If so, what areas are they What are the consequences, if any, of shutting down these facilities The budget highlights increases in the newly dubbed Advanced Scientific Computing Research account formerly the Computational and Technology Research account for civilian high performance computing as well as the Defense Program's corollary the Accelerated Strategic Computing Initiative (ASCI) program. I would like to better understand the relationship between civilian and defense efforts in the areas of information technology. 

*******************

Article 706

The Fiscal Year (FY) 2001 budget request for the Science appropriation supports: Advanced Scientific Computing Research, Basic Energy Sciences, Biological and Environmental Research, Fusion Energy Sciences, High Energy Physics, Nuclear Physics, Energy Research Analyses, Multiprogram Energy Laboratories- Facilities Support, and Science Program Direction. The Technical Information Management program budget request is located within the Energy Supply appropriation. The DOE budget for FY 2001 requests $3,151,065,000 for SC programs in the Science Appropriation and $9,302,000 for the Technical Information Program in the Energy Supply Appropriation. The activities supported by this budget will build on SC s achievements in the physical and biological sciences, leverage our current investments for new opportunities, and permit new investments in individual research projects at our national laboratories and research universities across the country. The Department s science programs and infrastructure advance basic research and provide the technical foundations and resources for DOE s applied missions in national security, energy, and environment. This request will enable SC to pursue new and challenging scientific opportunities in nanoscale science, engineering, and technology to allow for the creation of new materials one atom at a time; advanced scientific computing research to advance all of our research programs by taking advantage of the prodigious increases in computing power that will occur in the next few years; molecular level understanding of microbes to harness nature s remarkable chemical factories; and bioengineering to use the science and engineering capabilities of our programs for new breakthroughs. In addition, the ongoing programs representing our core competencies will remain strong and vigorous. 

*******************

Article 707

Researchers at NIDA's intramural program have found similar cognitive deficits with chronic cocaine abusers. Thus, these studies are clarifying how it is that illicit drugs compromise cognitive and behavioral abilities.

NIDA-supported researchers are not just using new imaging and molecular genetic technologies, they are also making significant contributions to the field by advancing the technology themselves. This is best exemplified by our efforts in the fast paced world of nanotechnology. For example, NIDA-supported researchers recently developed a biosensor system to analyze what is happening inside a single cell. These techniques are allowing us to see how important neurotransmitters like dopamine are stored and can move in and out of cells. This opens up many new avenues of research; allowing us to see with much greater resolution the impact that drugs of abuse have on the brain.

Determinants of Drug Use Preferences and Patterns Understanding why some individuals abuse drugs while others do not and why some develop more problematic drug use than others are some of the most challenging dilemmas being probed by researchers today. As we bring new and improved technologies and new groups of researchers into the search for answers to the sequestions, we are beginning to unveil some important and astonishing results. For example, using the advanced brain imaging technique of position emission tomography (PET), researchers have found the first clues as to why some individuals are prone to use stimulant drugs and why some are not. As an example, as shown in POSTER 1, these studies have shown a dramatic association between an individual's pre-drug exposure brain dopamine receptor levels and how much the individual reports "liking" or "disliking" a psychostimulant. Here you see two individuals with different levels of dopamine D2 receptors shown before any drug exposure. (Brighter colors represent higher numbers of receptors). The individual whose brain is shown on top and who had high levels of D2 receptors reported an unpleasant response to the mild stimulant methylphenidate. On the other hand, the individual on the bottom, with low D2 receptor levels, found the stimulant quite pleasant. This suggests that differences in brain chemistry predisposes people to respond in different ways to drags of abuse.



*******************

Article 708

And the study showed that the greater the degree of transporter loss, the greater the memory deficits. Researchers at NIDA's intramural program have found similar cognitive deficits with chronic cocaine abusers. Thus, these studies are clarifying how it is that illicit drugs compromise cognitive and behavioral abilities. NIDA-supported researchers are not just using new imaging and molecular genetic technologies, they are also making significant contributions to the field by advancing the technology themselves. This is best exemplified by our efforts in the fast paced world of nanotechnology. For example, NIDA-supported researchers recently developed a biosensor system to analyze what is happening inside a single cell. These techniques are allowing us to see how important neurotransmitters like dopamine are stored and can move in and out of cells. This opens up many new avenues of research; allowing us to see with much greater resolution the impact that drugs of abuse have on the brain. Determinants of Drug Use Preferences and Patterns Understanding why some individuals abuse drugs while others do not and why some develop more problematic drug use than others are some of the most challenging dilemmas being probed by researchers today. As we bring new and improved technologies and new groups of researchers into the search for answers to these questions, we are beginning to unveil some important and astonishing results. For example, using the advanced brain imaging technique of positron emission tomography (PET), researchers have found the first clues as to why some individuals are prone to use stimulant drugs and why some are not. As an example, as shown in POSTER 1, these studies have shown a dramatic association between an individual's pre-drug exposure brain dopamine receptor levels and how much the individual reports "liking" or "disliking" a psychostimulant. Here you see two individuals with different levels of dopamine D2 receptors shown before any drug exposure. (Brighter colors represent higher numbers of receptors). The individual whose brain is shown on top and who had high levels of D2 receptors reported an unpleasant response to the mild stimulant methylphenidate. On the other hand, the individual on the bottom, with low D2 receptor levels, found the stimulant quite pleasant. This suggests that differences in brain chemistry predisposes people to respond in different ways to drugs of abuse. 

*******************

Article 709

WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   KELLY, EAMON M. (Chairman, National Science Board)
   COLWELL, RITA R. (Director, NSF)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Review of NSF FY2001 budget request; highlights and priorities of NSF education and research activities; aspects of various NSF programs.
 
INSERTIONS:
   a. Amato, Ivan, "Nanotechnology: Shaping the World Atom by Atom" National Science and Technology Council Committee on Technology report, Sept. 1999 (p. 85-96).
   b. NSF, "Summary of FY2001 Budget Request to Congress," with charts and tables (p. 97-171).
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   NSF programs, FY2001 authorization
 
TESTIMONY DESCRIPTORS:
   NATIONAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL


*******************

Article 710

This year we will undertake bold new science and technology initiatives in biotechnology, naotechnotogy, and information technology. Three key emerging, interrelated technologies will provide NASA with a new pathway to revolutionize our missions and the scientific and engineering systems that enable them: biotechnology, nanotechnology and information technology. Over the past decade there have been tremendous scientific breakthroughs in the understanding of these fundamental processes. We are now ready for our technology to move out and exploit what we are learning. We will develop and execute our missions with greater safety, performance and robustness while continuously decreasing design cycle time and life cycle cost.

The first tier of NASA's technology strategy is biotechnology -- the true revolutionary technology of the 21st century. Since the formation of the first cells on Earth, all living systems have developed an extraordinary capacity to adapt to rapidly changing conditions, build- in a high degree of resilience enabling them to overcome damage and evolve in response to new environments. In terms of size, memory, processing speed and energy consumption biological systems are up to a billion times better than the systems we build today. These are the characteristics NASA will build into its future missions and systems. NASA will apply the underlying principles of biological processes to all our missions.



We will develop biologicallyinspired materials that self-repair when damaged, structures that self-assemble to achieve near perfect final shapes. We will develop concepts for aircraft that change their shape in flight like birds to optimize performance or perform complex maneuvers in complete safety.

Nanotechnology provides the capability to manipulate matter at the atomic level. In the future we will measure the way we design and build our systems by the atom, not by the pound. Today we are developing material systems, at the molecular level, that are 100X stronger than steel at 1/6 the weight. We will also develop sensors and detectors capable of responding to a single photon of light or the stimulus from a single electron. Using nanotechnology we will build systems on a scale 1000X smaller than today -- at true molecular level. They will be based on concepts emerging from biology, quantum mechanics and chemistry, all of which have no current parallel.

NASA is also on a path to "revolutionize" the information technology revolution and apply it to our unique mission needs. Humans can process the equivalent of about a terabyte of data every second -- that is equivalent to about 24 hours of television - as we process the data from our multi-sensory systems - sight, sound, smell, touch. We do this because we do not simply compute, we think. 

*******************

Article 711

National Nanoscaie Science and Engineering Initiative (NNI)

The new National Nanoscele Science and Engineering Initiative received special mention in both the President's State of the Union Address and in his speech on research funding at Caltech.

To appreciate what this is all about we need to step back for a moment.

One nanometer (one billionth of a meter) is a magical point on the dimensional scale. Nanostructures are at the confluence of the smallest of human-made devices and the large molecules of living systems.

- Individual atoms are around a few angstroms in diameter - a few tenths of a nanometer.

- DNA molecules are about 2.5 nanometers wide.

- Biological cells, like red blood cells, have diameters in the range of thousands of nanometers. Micro-electrical mechanical systems are now approaching this same scale.

- This means we are now at the point of connecting machines to individual cells.That involves biology, math, physics, chemistry, materials, engineering, IT - all the different ways they connect to each other at the nano-scale.

NSF will be the lead agency in the larger initiative, and we'll be focusing on science and engineering at the nanoscale.

We have developed a strong portfolio of investments. The major component is fundamental research at the nanoscaie. It will take us from biological and environmental systems all the way to quantum computing.

This investment will strengthen critical fields and help to establish the science and engineering infrastructure and workforce in this area.

I also want to stress the connections between the initiatives. For example, we often say you need nano-tech to go farther in info-tech. You may recall a line from the President's the State of the Union Address.


*******************

Article 712

There are a number of new initiatives in this year's NSF budget. I would like to highlight a few of them. Included in NSF's budget request is a 159 percent increase for Information Technology Research. Yesterday, as you know, the House adopted H.R. 2086, the bill I co- sponsored with Chairman Sensenbrenner to expand information technology research and authorizing the NSF request. I look forward to hearing about NSF's role as the lead agency in implementing the government's multi-agency IT research initiative.

Last year this subcommittee also held a fascinating heating on the topic of nanotechnology--the science of manipulating matter at the molecular level. NSF's budget request includes over $200 million for nanoscience and we would like to hear more on the goals of the program and how NSF will manage this initiative.

I am interested in heating more about NSF's Biocomplexity initiative. The budget request includes a 172 percent increase for this initiative. In addition, this Committee would like to hear more about NSF's genetics research, particularly the plant genome project. Our committee has held a series of heating on that extremely important topic and we hope to develop legislative language that helps assure the continuation of gene technology research and development.


*******************

Article 713

Information Technology Research will push the frontiers of high-end computing to expand our computer architecture, storage and retrieval, and network. The Terascale Computing System program will make supercomputing accessible to scientists and engineers across the Nation. And to better understand the social effects of those technologies, a research agenda on ethical, legal, education, and workforce issues will be supported across disciplines and cultures, including the use of technology in marketing goods and services in the global economy.

Like Information Technology Research, Nanoscale Science and Engineering is an Administration multi-agency initiative that NSF will lead. Nanometer scale--that is, one billionth of a meter to several hundred billionths - enables us to work at the atomic and molecular levels. Such manipulations create boundless possibilities for design of materials, manufacturing, electronics, computer simulations and processes in the environment are virtually boundless. The National Nanofabrication Users Network, university-based research hubs, and small business will all participate in the nanotechnology revolution.

Biocomplexity in the Environment is an ambitious program to integrate our understanding of dynamic systems ranging from simple organisms to whole ecosystems, from the transmission of waterborne contaminants to global climate change. Construction of a National Ecological Observatory Network will advance exploration of the biology of the planet pole-to-pole.


*******************

Article 714

There are a number of new initiatives in this year's NSF budget. I would like to highlight a few of them. Included in NSF's budget request is a 159 percent increase for Information Technology Research. Yesterday, as you know, the House adopted H.R. 2086, the bill I co-sponsored with Chairman Sensenbrenner to expand information technology research and authorizing the NSF request. I look forward to hearing about NSF's role as the lead agency in implementing the government's multi-agency IT research initiative. Last year this subcommittee also held a fascinating hearing on the topic of nanotechnology-the science of manipulating matter at the molecular level. NSF's budget request includes over $200 million for nanoscience and we would like to hear more on the goals of the program and how NSF will manage this initiative. I am interested in hearing more about NSF's Biocomplexity initiative. The budget request includes a 172 percent increase for this initiative. In addition, this Committee would like to hear more about NSF's genetics research, particularly the plant genome project. Our committee has held a series of hearing on that extremely important topic and we hope to develop legislative language that helps assure the continuation of gene technology research and development. I also have a particular interest in learning how we might expand the graduate fellowship effort. I wonder whether directing additional funding towards graduate fellows, who would then be able to take a larger role in deciding their own research agendas, would result in more marketable research and researchers. I hope our witnesses today could address this issue. The Committee is also interested in NSF's peer review process and how the Foundation evaluates its programs through the implementation of the Government Performance and Results Act. I would like to thank our two panelists for appearing before the Subcommittee today and I look forward to hearing their testimony.



*******************

Article 715

I am confident that these teams will make recommendations that will help us improve our processes and make our operations safer and better. Upon receipt of the reports, we will share the results with the Congress and work with you and the Administration to ensure their timely implementation. We must continue to learn, not only from our successes, but also from our failures. Mr. Chairman, in spite of our difficulties, I believe the report card on NASA's performance reflects well on the support of the Committee and on behalf of the American people. While we accomplished a great deal in 1999, I see an even brighter future ahead. That does not mean we won't experience difficulties. We will. The ambitious programs we undertake are intolerant of human error and stress our human capabilities to detect and respond to anomalies. Our strategy to achieve major improvements in safety, taking advantage of emergent technical tools, such as the Intelligent Synthesis Environment, includes improving our systems management approaches, and continuing to infuse the philosophy and practice of safety in all that we undertake. This budget provides funding for the research into and development of the technologies that will improve the probability of mission success. The additional funding requested for personnel and facilities, Shuttle safety investments, the next generations of launch vehicles, general aviation aircraft, Intelligent Systems, Bioastronautics, and nanotechnologies should all be understood as key players in improving Safety. FY 2001 Budget The FY 2001 budget represents a vote of confidence from the President that NASA is ready to tackle new challenges and opportunities in the New Millennium. This budget funds NASA's priorities and makes critical new investments to improve Space Shuttle safety, continuing to build the International Space Station, enabling a new generation of reusable launch vehicles that will improve the safety and reduce the cost of access to space through a new Space Launch Initiative, new science and technology initiatives to enhance our understanding of our planet, the solar system and the universe, as well as investments in aeronautics, education, our workforce and facilities. Thanks to Administration investments, this budget includes a $1.5 billion increase for Space Shuttle safety improvements over six years. There are two elements to the increase in Shuttle safety funding. First, the FY 2001 budget includes a $300 million increase through FY 2005 for additional personnel at NASA's Human Space Flight Centers to ensure that the right skills and staffing levels are in place to operate the Space Shuttle safely and to launch and assemble the ISS. Over the past five years, we completed an exercise to streamline and downsize the NASA workforce. We told you that if we cut too far we would come back and tell you. 

*******************

Article 716

Fighting Crime. The budget adds funds to hire 500 new ATF agents and 1,000 State and local gun prosecutors. It funds smart gun technology development. The budget also provides funds to prevent violence against women, and to address the growing law enforcement crisis on Indian lands. The budget strengthens border enforcement in the South and West. It combats illegal drug use, particularly among young people, through treatment and prevention, law enforcement, international assistance, and interdiction.Research.

The budget introduces a Science and Technology Initiative for high- priority long-term basic research, including nanotechnology -the manipulation of matter at the atomic and molecular level, offering the promise that medical science may one day be able to detect cancerous tumors when they comprise only a few cells. The budget also increases the Information Technology Initiative to invest in long-term research in computing and communications. It will accelerate development of extremely fast supercomputers to support 'civilian research, enabling scientists to develop life-savings drugs, provide earlier tornado warnings, and design more fuel-efficient, safer automobiles. The budget provides strong support for the Nation's two largest funders of civilian basic research at universities: the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health.

Environment. The Nation does not have to choose between a strong economy and a clean environment. The past seven years are proof that we can have both. The budget establishes dedicated funding and increases resources for the historic interagency Lands Legacy initiative to preserve the Nation's natural and historic treasures. The budget also supports the Clean Energy initiative, to reduce the threat of global warming, and Greening the Globe, to save tropical and other forests around the world. It supports farm conservation to upgrade water quality, the Clean Water Action plan to clean up polluted waterways, climate-change technology to increase energy- efficiency, and renewable energy to strengthen our economy while reducing greenhouse gases.


*******************

Article 717

At the same time we are requesting funds that would pay for recruiting and training of 50,000 new police officers, and funds that would strengthen the National Money Laundering Strategy. Money laundering is a growing international problem, and we need this budget allocation to strengthen U.S. leadership in fighting this problem.

Technology and the Environment Another important national priority must be investment in the science and technology that will spur economic growth and improve people's lives in the 21st century. The President's budget includes a nearly $3 billion increase in crucial investments, including a $1 billion increase in funding for biomedical research for the National Institutes of Health and a rise in funding for the National Science Foundation that is double the previous largest increase. These investments will enable Americans to continue to lead the world in many areas of science and technology, including biomedical research, nanotechnology, and clean energy.

The budget also contains $42 billion for high-priority environmental and natural resource programs, an increase of $4 billion over last year's enacted level. This includes $1.4 billion in discretionary funding for the Land's Legacy initiative to expand and protect our open spaces, an additional $1.3 billion to support farm conservation, and an additional $770 million to help combat global climate change.


*******************

Article 718

The budget increases the number of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities, which provide tax incentives and direct spending to encourage private investment, and provides more capital to the Community Development Financial Institutions program. The budget also includes significant funding increases for Native American communities, for enforcement of the Nation's civil rights laws, and for the partnership we have begun with the District of Columbia. Fighting Crime. The budget adds funds to hire 500 new ATF agents and 1,000 State and local gun prosecutors. It funds smart gun technology development. The budget also provides funds to prevent violence against women, and to address the growing law enforcement crisis on Indian lands. The budget strengthens border enforcement in the South and West. It combats illegal drug use, particularly among young people, through treatment and prevention, law enforcement, international assistance, and interdiction. Research. The budget introduces a Science and Technology Initiative for high-priority long-term basic research, including nanotechnology - the manipulation of matter at the atomic and molecular level, offering the promise that medical science may one day be able to detect cancerous tumors when they comprise only a few cells. The budget also increases the Information Technology Initiative to invest in long-term research in computing and communications. It will accelerate development of extremely fast supercomputers to support ;civilian research, enabling scientists to develop life-savings drugs, provide earlier tornado warnings, and design more fuel-efficient, safer automobiles. The budget provides strong support for the Nation's two largest fanders of civilian basic research at universities: the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health. Environment. The Nation does not have to choose between a strong economy and a clean environment. The past seven years are proof that we can have both. The budget establishes dedicated funding and increases resources for the historic interagency Lands Legacy initiative to preserve the Nation's natural and historic treasures. 

*******************

Article 719

The budget increases the number of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities, which provide tax incentives and direct spending to encourage private investment, and provides more capital to the Community Development Financial Institutions program. The budget also includes significant funding increases for Native American communities, for enforcement of the Nation's civil rights laws, and for the partnership we have begun with the District of Columbia. Fighting Crime. The budget adds funds to hire 500 new ATF agents and 1,000 State and local gun prosecutors. It funds smart gun technology development. The budget also provides funds to prevent violence against women, and to address the growing law enforcement crisis on Indian lands. The budget strengthens border enforcement in the South and West. It combats illegal drug use, particularly among young people, through treatment and prevention, law enforcement, international assistance, and interdiction. Research. The budget introduces a Science and Technology Initiative for high-priority long-term basic research, including nanotechnology - the manipulation of matter at the atomic and molecular level, offering the promise that medical science may one day be able to detect cancerous tumors when they comprise only a few cells. The budget also increases the Information Technology Initiative to invest in long-term research in computing and communications. It will accelerate development of extremely fast supercomputers to support ;civilian research, enabling scientists to develop life-savings drugs, provide earlier tornado warnings, and design more fuel-efficient, safer automobiles. The budget provides strong support for the Nation's two largest funders of civilian basic research at universities: the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health. Environment. The Nation does not have to choose between a strong economy and a clean environment. The past seven years are proof that we can have both. The budget establishes dedicated funding and increases resources for the historic interagency Lands Legacy initiative to preserve the Nation's natural and historic treasures. 

*******************

Article 720

Technology and the Environment

Another important national priority must be investment in the science and technology that will spur economic growth and improve people's lives in the 21st century. The President's budget includes a nearly $3 billion increase in crucial investments, including a $1 billion increase in funding for biomedical research for the National Institutes of Health and a rise in funding for the National Science Foundation that is double the previous largest increase. These investments will enable Americans to continue to lead the world in many areas of science and technology, including biomedical research, nanotechnology, and clean energy.

The budget also contains $42 billion for high-priority environmental and natural resource programs, an increase of $4 billion over last year's enacted level. This includes $1.4 billion in discretionary funding for the Land's Legacy initiative to expand and protect our open spaces, an additional $1.3 billion to support farm conservation, and an additional $770 million to help combat global climate change.

V. American Leadership in the World

As we enter this new century, it is crucial that we continue to learn the lessons of the last one by working to build an ever-widening circle of more prosperous and more open international economies. This enables us to enjoy the benefits of peace and the spread of our core values. And we benefit more directly in the millions of high-paying jobs that exports create and the competition and innovation that openness to imports can promote. In short, globalization is not a zero sum game but a "win-win proposition" for America and its trading partners.


*******************

Article 721

Fighting Crime. The budget adds funds to hire 500 new ATF agents and 1,000 State and local gun prosecutors. It funds smart gun technology development. The budget also provides funds to prevent violence against women, and to address the growing law enforcement crisis on Indian lands. The budget strengthens border enforcement in the South and West. It combats illegal drug use, particularly among young people, through treatment and prevention, law enforcement, international assistance, and interdiction.

Research.

Research.

The budget introduces a Science and Technology Initiative for high- priority long-term basic research, including nanotechnology- the manipulation of matter at the atomic and molecular level, offering the promise that medical science may one day be able to detect cancerous tumors when they comprise only a few cells. The budget also increases the Information Technology Initiative to invest in long-term research in computing and communications. It will accelerate development of extremely fast supercomputers to support civilian research, enabling scientists to develop life-savings drugs, provide earlier tornado warnings, and design more fuel-efficient, safer automobiles. The budget provides strong support for the Nation's two largest funders of civilian basic research at universities: the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health.Environment. The Nation does not have to choose between a strong economy and a clean environment. The past seven years are proof that we can have both. The budget establishes dedicated funding and increases resources for the historic interagency Lands Legacy initiative to preserve the Nation's natural and historic treasures. The budget also supports the Clean Energy initiative, to reduce the threat of global warming, and Greening the Globe, to save tropical and other forests around the world. It supports farm conservation to upgrade water quality, the Clean Water Action plan to clean up polluted waterways, climate-change technology to increase energy-efficiency, and renewable energy to strengthen our economy while reducing greenhouse gases.


*******************

Article 722

The budget also includes significant funding increases for Native American communities, for enforcement of the Nation's civil rights laws, and for the partnership we have begun with the District of Columbia. Fighting Crime. The budget adds funds to hire 500 new ATF agents and 1,000 State and local gun prosecutors. It funds smart gun technology development. The budget also provides-funds to prevent violence against women, and to address the growing law enforcement crisis on Indian lands. The budget strengthens border enforcement in the South and West. It combats illegal drug use, particularly among young people, through treatment and prevention, law enforcement, international assistance, and interdiction. Research. The budget introduces a Science and Technology Initiative for high-priority long-term basic research, including nanotechnology-the manipulation of matter at the atomic and molecular level, offering the promise that medical science may one day be able to detect cancerous tumors when they comprise only a few cells. The budget also increases the Information Technology Initiative to invest in long-term research in computing and communications. It will accelerate development of extremely fast supercomputers to support civilian research, enabling scientists to develop life-savings drugs, provide earlier tornado warnings, and design more fuel-efficient, safer automobiles. The budget provides strong support for the Nation's two largest funders of civilian basic research at universities: the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health. Environment. The Nation does not have to choose between a strong economy and a clean environment. The past seven years are proof that we can have both. The budget establishes dedicated funding and increases resources for the historic interagency Lands Legacy initiative to preserve the Nation's natural and historic treasures. The budget also supports the Clean Energy initiative, to reduce the threat of global warming, and Greening the Globe, to save tropical and other forests around the world. It supports farm conservation to upgrade water quality, the Clean Water Action plan to clean up polluted waterways, climate-change technology to increase energy-efficiency, and renewable energy to strengthen our economy while reducing greenhouse gases. National security -- diplomacy and defense. Our Nation now has the greatest opportunity in its history to advance American interests and values while building a better and more peaceful world. However, doing so requires leadership and engagement. 

*******************

Article 723

- Rogue states, groups, and individuals (e.g. Iran and North Korea, numerous terrorist and international criminal groups, Usama Bin Ladin, etc.) who do not share our vision of the future and are willing to engage in violence to improve their position and undermine order. Many of these adversaries view the United States as the primary source of their troubles, and will continue to target our policies, facilities, interests, and personnel. 

Rapid technology development and proliferation - particularly in the areas of information processing, biotechnology, communications, nanotechnology, and weapons. Technology will continue to have a staggering impact on the way people live, think; work, and fight. Some aspects of our general military-technological advantage are likely to erode. Some technological surprises will undoubtedly occur.

Declining global defense spending. The 50% real reduction in global defense spending during the past decade is having multiple impacts. First, both adversaries and allies have not kept pace with the US military (despite our own spending reductions). This has spurred foes toward asymmetric options, widened the gap between US and allied forces, reduced the number of allied redundant systems, and increased the demand on unique US force capabilities. Additional, longer-term impacts - on global defense technology development and proliferation, and on US-allied defense industrial consolidation, cooperation, and technological competitiveness are likely.


*******************

Article 724

The most important of these include: -Significant continuing uncertainties, especially regarding the future of Russia, China, Europe, the Middle East, and the Korean peninsula. Developments in each of these key states and regions will go a long way towards defining the future security environment. But it would be difficult to be highly confident in predicting outcomes. -Rogue states, groups, and individuals (e.g. Iran and North Korea, numerous terrorist and international criminal groups, Usama, Bin Ladin, etc.) who do not share our vision of the future and are willing to engage in violence to improve their position and undermine order. Many of these adversaries view the United States as the primary source of their troubles, and will continue to target our policies, facilities, interests, and personnel. - Rapid technology development and proliferation-particularly in the areas of information processing, biotechnology, communications, nanotechnology, and weapons. Technology will continue to have a staggering impact on the way people live, think, work, and fight. Some aspects of our general military- technological advantage are likely to erode. Some technological surprises will undoubtedly occur. Declining global defense spending. The 50% real reduction in global defense spending during the past decade is having multiple impacts. First, both adversaries and allies have not kept pace with the US military (despite our own spending reductions). This has spurred foes toward asymmetric options, widened the gap between US and allied forces, reduced the number of allied redundant systems, and increased the demand on unique US force capabilities. 

*******************

Article 725

To paraphrase the ancient Chinese curse...'we are living in very interesting times.' More than a decade has passed since the end of the Cold War, yet we seem no closer to the emergence of a new, stable international order. Rather, the complex mix of political, economic, military, and social factors that have undermined stability during much of the 1990s remain at play. The most important of these include: - Significant continuing uncertainties, especially regarding the future of Russia, China, Europe, the Middle East, and the Korean peninsula. Developments in each of these key states and regions will go a long way towards defining the future security environment. But it would be difficult to be highly confident in predicting outcomes.

- Rogue states, groups, and individuals (e.g. Iran and North Korea, numerous terrorist and international criminal groups, Usama Bin Ladin, etc.) who do not share our vision of the future and are willing to engage in violence to improve their position and undermine order. Many of these adversaries view the United States as the primary source of their troubles, and will continue to target our policies, facilities, interests, and personnel.

- Rapid technology development and proliferation - particularly in the areas of information processing, biotechnology, communications, nanotechnology, and weapons. Technology will continue to have a staggering impact on the way people live, think; work, and fight. Some aspects of our general military-technological advantage are likely to erode. Some technological surprises will undoubtedly occur.

- Declining global defense spending. The 50% real reduction in global defense spending during the past decade is having multiple impacts. First, both adversaries and allies have not kept pace with the US military (despite our own spending reductions). This has spurred foes toward asymmetric options, widened the gap between US and allied forces, reduced the number of allied redundant systems, and increased the demand on unique US force capabilities. Additional, longer-term impacts - on global defense technology development and proliferation, and on US-allied defense industrial consolidation, cooperation, and technological competitiveness are likely.


*******************

Article 726

The budget supports increases not only in biomedical research but also in all scientific and engineering fields. As you know, advances in one field are often dependent on breakthroughs in other disciplines. For example, advances in computer science are helping us to develop drugs more rapidly and to move from sequencing the human genome to better understanding the function of individual genes.


My budget supports a major new national nanotechnology initiative worth $500 million. Cal Tech is no stranger to the idea of nanotechnology -- the ability to manipulate matter at the atomic and molecular level.


Over 40 years ago, Cal Tech's own Richard Feynman asked what would happen if we could arrange the atoms one by one the way we want them? Well, you can see one example of this in this sign behind me that Dr. Lane furnished for Cal Tech to hang as the backdrop for this speech. It's the Western Hemisphere in gold atoms. But I think you will find more enduring uses for nanotechnology.


Just imagine: Materials with 10 times the strength of steel and only a fraction of the weight; shrinking all the information at the Library of Congress into a device the size of sugar cube; detecting cancerous tumors that are only a few cells in size. Some of these research goals will take 20 or more years to achieve, but that is why -- precisely why, as Dr. Baltimore said, there is such a critical role for the federal government.


*******************

Article 727

The Coming Longevity Revolution
On January 1, 1996, the first baby boomer turned 50. Now that members of this youth-oriented generation are within shouting distance of their maturity, they have begun to turn their attention toward the aging process itself. Most boomers would prefer to take their youth with them into old age. And, given impending breakthroughs in a wide range of scientific fields, this desire might actually be realized.
Currently, more than 100,000 anti-aging related research projects are underway in numerous disciplines in all comers of the world: more resources have been deployed in the battle against aging in the past ten years than in the previous ten centuries.
As a result, we could wake up a decade from now--or even a month from now--and find that there's a new medicine or genetic technology with which we can prevent cancer or Alzheimer's; a new generation of nutraceuticals and/or hormone cocktails that will fortify our aging immune systems and keep us youthful for decades; a new nanotechnology that can rid the vascular system of atherosclerotic buildup, thereby eliminating most heart disease. And what if scientists succeed in slowing cellular aging and elevate life expectancy as high as 120 or 150 years for those who can afford to buy the treatment? (Which raises other questions: If breakthroughs do occur, who will get them? Would a world in which some people lived to 200 and others died at 50 be dominated by a new politics of longevity?) While boomers might not find the "Fountain of Youth," there's a good chance that many will tap long, cool drinks of extended life. And because of the boomers' proclivity for experimentation with self-care' and "alternative" treatments, the United States will almost certainly be "ground zero" for the mind-boggling longevity revolution to come.
Like a Pig Through a Python


*******************

Article 728

The Coming Longevity Revolution On January 1, 1996, the first baby boomer turned 50. Now that members of this youth- oriented generation are within shouting distance of their maturity, they have begun to turn their attention toward the aging process itself. Most boomers would prefer to take their youth with them into old age. And, given impending breakthroughs in a wide range of scientific fields, this desire might actually be realized. Currently, more than 100,000 anti-aging related research projects are underway in numerous disciplines in all comers of the world: more resources have been deployed in the battle against aging in the past ten years than in the previous ten centuries. As a result, we could wake up a decade from now-or even a month from now-and find that there's a new medicine or genetic technology with which we can prevent cancer or Alzheimer's; a new generation of nutraceuticals and/or hormone cocktails that will fortify our aging immune systems and keep us youthful for decades; a new nanotechnology that can rid the vascular system of atherosclerotic buildup, thereby eliminating most heart disease. And what if scientists succeed in slowing cellular aging and elevate life expectancy as high as 120 or 150 years for those who can afford to buy the treatment? (Which raises other questions: If breakthroughs do occur, who will 1, get them? Would a world in which some people lived to 200 and others died at 50 be dominated by a new politics of longevity?) While boomers might not find the "Fountain of Youth," there's a good chance that many will tap long, cool drinks of extended life. And because of the boomers' proclivity for experimentation with self-care and "alternative" treatments, the United States will almost certainly be "ground zero" for the mind-boggling longevity revolution to come. Like a Pig Through a Python The boomers have dominated American culture for five decades. Every time they've taken a step, the spotlight of the media has swiveled to illuminate them. The massive numbers of this cohort have amplified the importance of whatever experiences they've had at each new moment in their lives. Just as surely as they learned to use a baby bottle, they learned to read, to play records, to buy cars, to vote, to buy and remodel homes, and to invest in the stock market. When boomers reach any stage of life, the issues that concern them-whether financial, interpersonal, or even hormonal-become the dominant social, political, and marketplace themes of the time. 

*******************

Article 729

Another divisive issue will concern the increasingly blurred line between medical necessity and "cosmetic" or elective remedial procedures. It will be particularly difficult for experts in medical ethics, insurance company executives, doctors, and government administrators-separately and especially together--to decide how to allocate limited medical resources to a population deeply desirous of securing access to new means of longevity.219 The international dimension to this problem may be just as troublesome. How will the United States and certain other fortunate countries manage the political and diplomatic implications of the widening gap between life spans in their midst and those in other countries?
Similarly, those countries that are able to fabricate and apply MEMs (micro-electromechanical devices) and nanotechnology are likely to have a significant economic and military edge over those who cannot. American scientists and engineers will compete with their Japanese counterparts to lead the drive to miniaturization through micro- fabrication. So revolutionary is the potential for nanotechnology that it may propel U.S. economic growth rates above the high-mark predictions of most experts.
Taken together, these trends in science and technology could change America in fundamental ways, from the way we get our food and our news to how our national culture itself develops. Even the cohesion of the national e emotional bonds that link us to our past and to each other- will not be immune from these trends. If, as suggested earlier, technological trends narrow our public space, eviscerate democracy, and isolate social classes from each other, national
cohesion will suffer, if, on the other hand, these trends are guided in such a way as to increase political participation on the local level, bolster the economy, and reverse income inequality, then social cohesion may grow stronger.


*******************

Article 730

(PLEASE REFER TO ORIGINAL SOURCE FOR TABLE.) Senate

(PLEASE REFER TO ORIGINAL SOURCE FOR TABLE.)

RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT TEST & EVAL, DEFENSE-WIDE

DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES 64,293 66,293 66,293 67,893

Spectral hole burning applications 2,000 1,700

Nanoelectric research (Note: $1,900,000 is only for molecular and Quantum-Dot Cellular Automata nanoelectronic research.) 2,000 1,900

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES 216,778 227,278 221,778 231,378

Anticorrosion studies 1,500 800

Advanced high yield software development 1,500 800

Active hyperspectral imaging sensor research 2,000 2,000

DEPSCOR (25,000) (25,000) (25,000)

Personnel research institute (2,000) (2,000)


*******************

Article 731

In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, let me add that NSF's has a had a proud history of investing in the best people, the most imaginative ideas, and the most innovative tools. All of this is done with an eye toward their potential use in service to society.
We of course know we cannot rest on our laurels. We will have even more exciting opportunities in the future because of research that we are investing in today.
- Nanotechnology is allowing us to build machines so small that they are rapidly approaching the scale of human cells. Consider: a nanometer is to an inch what an inch is to 400 miles. We are on the verge of building machines on that scale.
- New devices based on quantum computing or DNA computing could make the information revolution of today look like a paltry beginning.
- And, understanding of the social and cultural impacts of technological change could change the scope and manner in which new technologies are deployed.Last year's National Science Policy Report- produced under the leadership of the House Science Committee Chairman Sensenbrenner and Vice Chairman Ehlers - captured this very point.
"The federal investment in science has yielded stunning payoffs. It has spawned not only new products, but also entire industries. To build upon the strength of the research enterprise we must make federal research funding stable and substantial, maintain diversity in the federal research portfolio, and promote creative, groundbreaking research."
We are very proud of the impact of NSF-supported basic research over the agency's first 50 years. With your support and the Congress' support, Mr. Chairman, the next 50 years promise to bring even greater rewards to all Americans.
END


*******************

Article 732

U.S. REPRESENTATIVE KEN BENTSEN (D-TX): I thank my colleague. Mr. Hoyer and I represent the 25th district of Texas in the Houston area, along with my colleague, Sheila Jackson Lee, who you will hear from in a moment.


And I had the honor of having part of the NASA aeronautics program that's located at Ellington Field in the district I represent along with the NASA Biomedical Research Institute, which is located at the Baylor College of Medicine in the Texas Medical Center, which is a collaborative among teaching hospitals in medical schools in NASA as well as some NIH funding and some other programs.


And then Rice University and the Center for Nanotechnology, where again, there's a great deal of research going on with NASA.


It is a shame that the leadership has decided to take this approach. It seems to be a recurring nightmare. When I first came to Congress in 1995, we had a budget that was brought upon the House floor that would have cut $2 billion out of NASA. That was stopped but not after -- not after we had a shutdown of the government and not after I remember getting a phone call in my office between Christmas and New Years from a woman who said, "Congressman, I work for NASA, my husband works for NASA, we've been unemployed for three months. We have to buy the kids Christmas presents, we've got to get them school clothes for next semester. What are we supposed to do? What are you going to do for us?"



*******************

Article 733

Taking its cue from the community and seizing the unprecedented scientific opportunity created by the impending completion of the Arabidopsis sequencing project, NSF is planning a new initiative called the "2010 Project." The goal of the 2010 Project is to determine the function of all the genes in the Arabidopsis genome (estimated to be 25,000 genes) by the year 2010.
In order to accomplish this goal, new experimental and computational tools will be needed. Among these are the microarray and gene chip nanotechnologies that are being developed at Michigan State University. In addition, there is a great need to train new plant biologists and bioinformaticists who will be able to exploit these tools to the fullest. NSF, with its strategic goal of the integration of research and education, is poised to provide both the tools and the trained researchers to use them.
Conclusion
In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, the National Science Foundation provides funding for much of the basic research in plant genomics that allows the U.S. agricultural biotechnology industry to keep up with the increasing demand for agricultural products while protecting the environment and ensuring the safety, security and diversity of the food supply. I would like to thank you for holding this hearing on plant genome science and inviting me to testify as a representative of the Federal government. I know that the Subcommittee appreciates the importance of the Federal investment in research and development and I would be happy to provide any further information that you may need.
END


*******************

Article 734

The plant biology community has set its next 10-year goals for the Arabidopsis genome research project - to exploit the revolution in plant genomics by understanding the function of all Arabidopsis genes (and, by extension, the genes of all flowering plants) within their cellular, organismal and evolutionary context; and to create an information structure to coordinate, integrate, analyze and make accessible this knowledge. Taking its cue from the community and seizing the unprecedented scientific opportunity created by the impending completion of the Arabidopsis sequencing project, NSF is planning a new initiative called the "2010 Project." The goal of the 2010 Project is to determine the function of all the genes in the Arabidopsis genome (estimated to be 25,000 genes) by the year 2010. In order to accomplish this goal, new experimental and computational tools will be needed. Among these are the microarray and gene chip nanotechnologies that are being developed at Michigan State University. In addition, there is a great need to train new plant biologists and bioinformaticists who will be able to exploit these tools to the fullest. NSF, with its strategic goal of the integration of research and education, is poised to provide both the tools and the trained researchers to use them. Conclusion In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, the National Science Foundation provides funding for much of the basic research in plant genomics that allows the U.S. agricultural biotechnology industry to keep up with the increasing demand for agricultural products while protecting the environment and ensuring the safety, security and diversity of the food supply. I would like to thank you for holding this hearing on plant genome science and inviting me to testify as a representative of the Federal government. I know that the Subcommittee appreciates the importance of the Federal investment in research and development and I would be happy to provide any further information that you may need.



*******************

Article 735

WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   WONG, EUGENE (Assistant Director, Engineering, NSF)
   MCWHORTER, PAUL J. (Deputy Director, Microsystems Science, Technology & Components Center, Sandia National Laboratories)
   SMALLEY, RICHARD E. (Professor, Physics, Rice University)
   MERKLE, RALPH C. (Senior Research Associate, Institute for Molecular Manufacturing)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Examination of advances in nanoscience research, with review of possible uses for nanotechnology; importance of nanoscience R&D; benefits of nanoscale machines in various fields; support for interagency nanoscience research initiative proposed for Administration FY2001 budget request.
 
INSERTIONS:
   a. Roco, Michael C. and Murday, James S. (Interagency Working Group on Nanoscience, Engineering, and Technology), "Nanotechnology -- A Revolution in the Making -- Vision for R&D in the Next Decade" Mar. 10, 1999 (p. 57-68).
   b. National Research Council, "Physics of Materials: How Science Improves Our Lives" 1997 (p. 104-139).
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   Small scale science and technology, review
 
TESTIMONY DESCRIPTORS:
   INSTITUTE FOR MOLECULAR MANUFACTURING; INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON NANOSCIENCE, ENGINEERING, AND TECHNOLOGY; NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION; SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES


*******************

Article 736

Mr. Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee:
My name is Eugene Wong and I am the Assistant Director of the National Science Foundation for Engineering. I am pleased to have the opportunity to testify before you on the very great opportunities that are presented to us in the area of nanoscale science and technology.
What is nanoscale?
One nanometer is one billionth of a meter. It is a magical point on the scale of length, for this is the point where the smallest man-made devices meet the atoms and molecules of the natural world. To get an idea of the scale, we can compare the lengths of some familiar things. The diameter of an atom is about one quarter of a nanometer. The diameter of human hair is about 10,000 nanometers. The smallest experimental electronic devices that have been made are about ten nanometers in their smallest dimension. The smallest' devices on commercially available chips are about 200 nanometers. Protein molecules, which are so critical to living things, are several nanometers in size. Nanoscale refers to dimensions that vary from a fraction of a nanometer to tens of nanometers. 
Figure 1 provides a good illustration of the scale. This is a scanning tunneling microscope image of a pyramid of germanium atoms on top of a silicon surface. - The pyramid is ten nanometers across at the base, and it is actually only 1.5 nanometer tall. Each round-looking object in the image is actually an individual germanium atom. The pyramid obtained by Stanley Williams at the Hewlett-Packard Labs was formed in just a few seconds all by itself via a process called self-assembly, which is illustrated in Figure 2.
Over the last twenty years, a series of instruments were invented that now allow us to see, manipulate, and control objects at nanoscale. They are the eyes, fingers and tweezers of the nanoscale world. With these tools, a new world of discovery and invention has been created. This is the world of nanoscale science and technology.
What is new?
Nanoscale phenomena and objects have been around for some time. Catalysts, for example, are mostly nanoscale particles, and catalysis is a nanoscale phenomenon. Photography is another example of nanoscale technology. Most of molecular biology works at nanoscale. What is new and different now is the degree of understanding and deliberate control and precision that the new nanoscale techniques afford. Instead of discovering new phenomena by accident or by random search, we can look for them systematically. Instead of finding nanoscale particles and structures with good properties through serendipity, we now seek to design them to order. Furthermore, novel structures and fundamentally new properties and processes can be obtained. We are witnessing an explosion of revolutionary discoveries at nanoscale.
Why are nanoscale phenomena and techniques so important?
First, the small size itself is of great potential benefit. The creation of modem information technology, for example, was made possible by systematically reducing the size of devices on a chip, thereby increasing the processing capability of a single chip. Composites are mixtures of particles of different types. Because nanoscale particles have large surface-to-volume ratios, composites made of nanoscale particles can better retain the best properties of their constituents.Second, with the ability to control and alter nanoscale structures of materials we can often improve or profoundly change the properties and phenomena in materials without changing their chemical composition. That is, the same molecules are present, but their physical arrangement is changed. Furthermore, high performance devices can be built that were not possible before. Third, much of molecular biology works at nanoscale. By using the techniques of nanoscale science in biology, we gain two great advantages, a deeper understanding of how nature works and ways to improve upon nature. Self-assembly, for example, is an important biological phenomenon. Understanding it affords the possibility of making inorganic things through self-assembly, as we have already seen in the germanium/silicon example in Figure 2. At the same time, applying the new found techniques of manipulating molecules affords the possibility for gene and drug delivery by directly moving molecules into cells.
Multi-scale assembly and integration are critical to all functional systems, living and man-made. The lessons of microelectronics and biology are different, yet both powerful. The lesson from electronics is a top-down design that dramatically limits the increase in complexity when density of devices and interconnection increases. The lesson of biology is the power of self-assembly. Nanoscale science and technology hold the promise of combining the best of both, working both top-down and bottom-up, in producing systems of unprecedented power and elegant simplicity.
What are the applications?
The applications of nanoscale science and technology will lead to breakthroughs in information technology, advanced manufacturing, medicine and health, environment and energy, and national security. Some of these are as follows:
Materials and Manufacturing
Several possibilities for making precisely engineered materials through nanotechnology are immediate. These include new materials with vastly improved strength and wear characteristics, better catalysts for the chemical industry, new drugs and food products, and new materials for electronics and information technology.
Electronics
Electronics will be profoundly changed by nanotechnology in many ways. The invention of integrated circuits in the early sixties brought forth a technology that has proved to be the most scalable ever invented. The basic concept of"printing" circuits on a silicon base has continued to work as the density of devices increased from a few transistors on a chip to ten million transistors on a chip. However, the physical limits of the technology will soon be reached, and a new world of nanoelectronics will need to be invented.
The first commercial nanoscale products are already in production. A magnetic read-head (which reads information from a hard disk) of nanoscale dimensions based on the GMR (giant magneto-resistance) principle is on the market and promises to revolutionize the computer storage market. Prototypes of memory chips using an advanced version of GMR (TMR - tunneling magneto-resistance) have also been designed and fabricated. Figure 3 shows that the future magnetic random access memory chips will outperform by orders of magnitude the memory (- 1000), response time (- 100000), and size (1/10) the chip built with the current technology in a business of $100B/year.


The basic techniques of microelectronics are being extended to a gmat variety of non-electronic applications. These include gene sequencing, DNA matching, combinatorial chemistry, micromechanical devices, optical and sensor chips, and hybrids involving electronics with any combination of the above. In all these applications, the techniques of nanotechnology are indispensable. For example, how does one place different chemicals in a million cells on a chip? The answer will have to come from nanotechnology.
Medicine and Health
Nanotechnology is so intimately associated with molecular biology that its potential application in this area is all pervasive. We have already mentioned better drag design and better drug and gene delivery. We have also discussed chip technology in biological and medical applications. Hybrid systems involving both living and artificial components such as synthetic tissues and organs for placement in cells are yet another possibility.
Biotechnology and Agriculture
The molecular building blocks of life - proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates and their nonbiological mimics - are examples of materials that possess unique properties determined by their size, folding and patterns at the nanoscale. Imitation of biological systems provides a major area of research in several disciplines. For example, the active area of bio-mimetic chemistry is based on this approach.
Nanotechnology can be applied for improving animal and plant genetics, better control of the growing processes and use of chemicals for agriculture. Nanofabrication of detector arrays provides the potential to do thousands of experiments for simultaneous gene characterization and selection with very small amounts of material. Figure 4 is of a chip with 6400 nanodots, each containing a small amount of a different gene in the yeast genome - and each representing a nanodetector capable of determining the amount of that gene being expressed by the yeast. The same experiment can now be performed with tens of thousands of genes, and by comparing the gene expression, scientists can discover which few genes are being activated or inhibited during growing process or disease. With the prospect of having in hand complete genome sequences, including the model plants, this information is critical to determine what genes will determine an improved production and when a plant is exposed to salt or drought stress. The application of this technology to agriculture has only begun to be appreciated. The nano-chip will allow the genes to be completely characterized molecule by molecule in just a few hours. Five years ago this same experiment would have taken dozens of scientists years to complete.
Automotive industry
Various applications are nanoparticle reinforced polymers and tires, resistant paintings, fee-resistant plastics, and increased efficiency of combustion. Figure 5 shows A 'nano' network of polymer strings formed between nanoparticles that increases the material strength and its melting temperature. Several companies are developing practical synthesis and manufacturing technologies to enable the use of new high-performance, low-weight "nanocomposite" materials in automobiles. Proposed applications would save 1.5 billion liters of gasoline over the life of one year's production of vehicles and reduce related carbon dioxide emissions by more than 5 billion kilograms.
Energy technologies
New types of batteries, artificial photosynthesis for clean energy, quantum solar cells, safe storage of hydrogen for use as a clean fuel and savings using energy efficient processes are a few of the potential applications.
Environment
Selective membranes that can filter contaminants, nanostructured traps for removing pollutants from industrial effluents, improved control emissions from a wide range of sources, understanding the effects of nanoscale processes in environment on biodiversity and health, and maintaining industrial sustainability by significant reduction of materials and energy use, are only a few of the opportunities.
National Security
Detectors and detoxifiers of chemical and biological agents, continued information dominance, nanostructured electronics, camouflage materials, light and self-repairing textiles, use of uninhabited combat vehicles and miniaturized surveillance systems are several of critical defense applications that will depend on nanotechnology. Figure 6 illustrates the development of new, economic detectors based on assembling of nanoparticles coated with DNA when the targeted bio- agent is present. Such detection was not possible before in the field.
Research Opportunities
The following areas of investigation were identified during a workshop convened by the Interagency Working Group on Nanoscale Science and Technology and held during January 1999:- Long-term nano science and engineering research that will lead to fundamental understanding and to discoveries of novel phenomena, processes, experimental and simulation tools for nanotechnology.
Synthesis and processing "by design" of engineered, nanometer-size, material building blocks and system components, fully exploiting self organization, patterning and other advanced concepts. Accelerate the application of multiscale modeling and high-performance computation to the prediction of nanostructured properties and phenomena and materials by design.
Nanodevice concepts and system architecture research to best exploit their properties in operational systems, and combining building-up of molecular structures with ultraminiaturization.
Application of nanostructured materials and systems to manufacturing, power systems, energy, environment, national security, and health. Develop core enabling technologies such as fundamental molecular scale measurement and manipulation tools and standard methods, materials, and data that will be applied to many commercial sectors; Educate and train a new generation of skilled workers in the multidisciplinary perspectives necessary for rapid progress in nanotechnology;
The Federal Role, Past and Future
Nanoscale science and technology were born of basic research, much of it funded through federal support. The National Science Foundation has a long history of support for research into the fundamental physical, ' chemical and materials properties of nanometer-scale systems. This support has culminated in Nobel prizes in 1996 to Robert Curl, Richard Smalley and Harold Kroto for discovery of buckyballs (C60) and in 1998 to Robert Laughlin, Horst Stormer and Daniel Tsui for the discovery and explanation of the fractional quantum Hall effect.
The National Science Foundation also funds the National - Nanofabrication User Network (NNUN) the primary infrastructure for chip-level nano-fabrication research. Through its recent initiatives "Functional Nanostructures,""XYZ on a Chip" and "Nanoscale Biotechnology," it is spearheading nanoscale technology activities in these important areas.
NSF has also played a lead role in coordinating interagency efforts in this area. Dr. M.C. Roco of NSF chairs the Interagency Working Group on Nanoscale Science and Technology, which operates under the auspices of the National Science and Technology Council through its Committee on Technology.
Despite its great commercial promise, the field of nanoscale science and technology cannot advance without federal support and cannot fulfill its promise in a timely way without a substantial increase in federal funding. This is so because so much of the work that is needed is fundamental research. Furthermore, even the work with targeted applications has a long lead-time. In the current competitive climate private sector investment will fall far short of what is needed and a strong federal role will be necessary for the field to advance, and to advance in a timely way.
The current NSF funding is this area is approximately $90 million a year and the total funding among all agencies for FY'99 is estimated to be $240 million.
Through its role in funding research, NSF will also achieve two additional major objectives. First, the funding will catalyze private spending from industry. Second, because nearly all of NSF's funding goes to universities and because of NSF's emphasis on the integration of education with research, education in this area will benefit. Indeed, without the NSF role, it is unlikely that the trained manpower needed for this field will be available.
Nanoscale science and technology represent a major opportunity for the nation. It is a strategic area for NSF and we seek your encouragement and support.
END

*******************

Article 737

For centuries manufacturing methods have gotten more precise, less expensive, and more flexible. These trends are likely to culminate in the next few decades with the development of nanotechnology, a manufacturing technology able to inexpensively fabricate, with molecular precision, most structures that are consistent with physical law. Such a manufacturing technology will provide pervasive benefits across the economy and be critical to our military preparedness and economic competitiveness. Developing it will require basic research to elucidate the goals and developmental pathways. Because this research is beyond the planning horizon and resources of almost all companies government involvement could well play the critical role in its timely development.
**************
Nanotechnology: the coming revolution in manufacturing
Introduction
For centuries manufacturing methods have gotten more precise, less expensive, and more flexible. In the next few decades, we will approach the limits of these trends. The limit of precision is the ability to get every atom where we want it. The limit of low cost is set by the cost of the raw materials and the energy involved in manufacture. The limit of flexibility is the ability to arrange atoms in all the patterns permitted by physical law. 
Most scientists agree we will approach these limits but differ about how best to proceed, on what nanotechnology will look like, and on how long it will take to develop. Much of this disagreement is caused by the simple fact that, collectively, we have only recently agreed that the goal is feasible and we have not yet sorted out the issues that this creates. This process of creating a greater shared understanding both of the goals of nanotechnology and the routes for achieving those goals is the most important result of today's research.
The Goal
Nanotechnology (or molecular nanotechnology to refer more specifically to the goals discussed here) will let us continue the historical trends in manufacturing right up to the fundamental limits imposed by physical law. It will let us make remarkably powerful molecular computers. It will let us make materials over fifty times lighter than steel or aluminum alloy but with the same strength. We'll be able to make jets, rockets, cars or even chairs that, by today's standards, would be remarkably light, strong, and inexpensive. Molecular surgical tools, guided by molecular computers and injected into the blood stream could find and destroy cancer cells or invading bacteria, unclog arteries, or provide oxygen when the circulation is impaired.
Nanotechnology will replace our entire manufacturing base with a new, radically more precise, radically less expensive, and radically more flexible way of making products. The aim is not simply to replace today's computer chip making plants, but also to replace the assembly lines for cars, televisions, telephones, books, surgical tools, missiles, bookcases, airplanes, tractors, and all the rest. The objective is a pervasive change in manufacturing, a change that will leave virtually no product untouched. Economic progress and military readiness in the 21 st Century will depend fundamentally on maintaining a competitive position in nanotechnology.
Self Replication and Low Cost
Many researchers think self replication will be the key to unlocking nanotechnologies full potential, moving it from a laboratory curiosity able to expensively make a few small molecular machines and a handful of valuable products to a robust manufacturing technology able to make myriads of products for the whole planet. We know self replication can inexpensively make complex products with great precision: cells are programmed by DNA to replicate and make complex systems -- including giant redwoods, wheat, whales, birds, pumpkins and more. We should likewise be able to develop artificial programmable self replicating molecular machine systems -- also known as assemblers -- able to make a wide range of products from graphite, diamond, and other non- biological materials. The first groups to develop assemblers will have a historic window for economic, military, and environmental impact.
What needs to be done
Developing nanotechnology will be a major project -- just as developing nuclear weapons or lunar rockets were major projects. We must first focus our efforts on developing two things: the tools with which to build the first molecular machines, and the blueprints of what we are to build. This will require the cooperative efforts of researchers across a wide range of disciplines: scanning probe microscopy, supramolecular chemistry, protein engineering, self assembly, robotics, materials science, computational chemistry, self replicating systems, physics, computer science, and more. This work must focus on fundamentally new approaches and methods: incremental or evolutionary improvements will not be sufficient. Government funding is both appropriate and essential for several reasons: the benefits will be pervasive across companies and the economy; few if any companies will have the resources to pursue this alone; and development will take many years to a few decades (beyond the planning horizon of most private organizations).
We know it's possible. We know it's valuable. We should do it.


*******************

Article 738

Today, we stand on the verge of a second silicon revolution. The metrics of the second silicon revolution will be different and more important that simply continuing to pack more transistors onto a chip. The metrics of the second silicon revolution will be the incorporation of new structures, microscopic machines, on the chip, alongside the transistors, creating a whole new generation of computer chip; a chip that can not only think, but sense, act and communicate as well. These fully functioning machines have feature sizes smaller than a human red blood cell. This new capability will have as profound of an impact on our lives over the next 30 years as microelectronics have had over the last 30 years.
The "Second Silicon Revolution" has begun, and a variety of commercial products exist today that contain micromachines, ranging from toys to important automobile safety devices. To fully realize the potential of the "Second Silicon Revolution", however, certain scientific hurdles must be overcome. In the 1800's, realization of high performance traditional macro-machines required the development of a fundamental understanding of the science of the micro-domain. Similarly, to effectively design, build and operate machines in the micro-domain, we must have a fundamental understanding of materials and surfaces in the nano-domain. Nanotechnology and nanoscience will be key elements of fully achieving the vision for micromachines and microsytems. It will be nanotechnology that will lead to new functions, better performance, and higher reliability in micromachines and microsystems.


*******************

Article 739

Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity today to present my views on nanotechnology. There is a growing sense in the scientific and technical community that we are about to enter a golden new era. We are about to be able to build things that work on the smallest possible length scales, atom by atom with the ultimate level of finesse. These little nanothings, and the technology that assembles and manipulates them - nanotechnology -- will revolutionize our industries, and our lives.
Everything we see around us is made of atoms, the tiny elemental building blocks of matter. From stone, to copper, to bronze, iron, steel, and now silicon, the major technological ages of humankind have been defined by what these atoms can do in huge aggregates, trillions upon trillions of atoms at a time, molded, shaped, and refined as macroscopic objects. Even in our vaunted microelectronics of 1999, in our highest-tech silicon computer chip the smallest feature is a mountain compared to the size of a single atom. The resultant technology of our 20th century is fantastic, but it pales when compared to what will be possible when we learn to build things at the ultimate level of control, one atom at a time. 
Nature has played the game at this level for billions of years, building stuff with atomic precision. Every living thing is made of cells that are chock full of nanomachines - proteins, DNA, RNA, etc.- each jiggling around in the water of the cell, rubbing up against other molecules, going about the business of life. Each one is perfect right down to the last atom. The workings are so exquisite that changing the location or identity of any atom would cause damage. Over the past century we have learned about the workings of these biological nanomachines to an incredible level of detail, and the benefits of this knowledge are beginning to be felt in medicine. In coming decades we will learn to modify and adapt this machinery to extend the quality and length of life. Biotechnology was the first nanotechnology, and it has a long way yet to go.
Let me give you just one, personal, example: cancer. I sit before you today with very little hair on my head. It fell out a few weeks ago as a result of the chemotherapy I've been undergoing to treat a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma - the same sort that recently killed King Hussein of Jordan. While I am very optimistic, this chemotherapy is a very blunt tool. It consists of small molecules which are toxic - they kill cells in my body. Although they are meant to kill only the cancer cells, they kill hair cells too, and cause all sorts of other havoc.
Now, I'm not complaining. Twenty years ago, without even this crude chemotherapy I would already be dead. But twenty years from now, I am confident we will no longer have to use this blunt tool. By then nanotechnology will have given us specially engineered drugs which are nanoscale cancer-seeking missiles, a molecular technology that specifically targets just the mutant cancer cells in the human body, and leaves everything else blissfully alone. To do this these drug molecules will have to be big enough - thousands of atoms -- so that we can code the information into them of where they should go and what they should kill. They will be examples of an exquisite, human-made nanotechnology of the future. I may not live to see it. But, with your help, I am confident it will happen. Cancer - at least the type that I have will be a thing of the past.Powerful as it will be, this bio-side of nanotechnology that works in the water-based world of living things will not be able to do everything. It cannot make things strong like steel or conduct electricity with the speed and efficiency of copper or silicon. For this, other nanotechnologies will be developed - what I call the "dry side" of nanotech. My own research these days is focused on carbon nanotubes - an outgrowth of the research that led to the Nobel Prize a few years ago. These nanotubes are incredible. They are expected to produce fibers 100 times stronger than steel at only 1/6th the weight - almost certainly the strongest fibers that will ever be made out of anything. In addition they will conduct electricity better than copper. Membranes made from arrays of these nanotubes are expected to have revolutionary impact in the technology of rechargeable batteries and fuel cells, perhaps giving us all- electric vehicles within the next 10-20 years with the performance and range of a Corvette at a fraction of the cost.
As individual nanoscale molecules, carbon nanotubes are unique. They have been shown to be true molecular wires, and have already been assembled into the first single molecule transistor ever built. Several decades from now we may see our current silicon-based microelectronics supplanted by a carbon-based nanoelectronics of vastly greater power and scope.
It's amazing what one can do just by putting atoms where you want them to go.
Recently an Interagency Working Group on Nano Science, Engineering and Technology (1WGN) has studied the field of nanotechnology in detail, and made its recommendation to OSTP (March 10, 1999) for a new national initiative in this critical emerging area. Quoting from Mike Roco, chair of the lWGN:
"A national initiative, Nanotechnology for the Twenty-First Century: Leading to a New Industrial Revolution' is recommended as part of the fiscal year 2001 budget. The initiative will support long-term nanotechnology research and development, which will lead to breakthroughs in information technology, advanced manufacturing, medicine and health, environment and energy, and national security. The impact of nanotechnology on the health, wealth, and lives of people will be at least the equivalent of the combined influences of microelectronics, medical imaging, computer-aided engineering and man- made polymers developed in this century. The proposed level of additional annual funding doubles (by $260M) the current level of effort, incrementally increased over three years. This initiative will focus on fundamental research on novel phenomena, processes and tools; synthesis and processing by design; nanostructured devices, materials and systems that are high-risk, broadly enabling and are designed to have major impact; as well as on education and training of future nanotechnology workers and rapid knowledge and technology transfer."
Mr. Chairman, Honorable Congressmen, I believe it is in our Nation's best interest to move boldly into this new field.
As additional background material, the following is excerpted from "Nanotechnology A Revolution in the Making -- Vision for R&D in the Next Decade," a report of the Interagency Working Group on Nanoscience, Engineering, and Technology, presented to the OSTP Committee on Technology, March 10, 1999.
END


*******************

Article 740

STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Review of various technological innovations and related issues.
 
INSERTION:
   -- Interagency Working Group on Nanoscience, Engineering, and Technology, "Nanotechnology -- A Revolution in the Making -- Vision for R&D in the Next Decade" excerpt (p. 36-46).
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   Technology devs and policy issues
 
TESTIMONY DESCRIPTORS:
   ANSER


*******************

Article 741

Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity today to present my views on nanotechnology. There is a growing sense in the scientific and technical community that we are about to enter a golden new era. We are about to be able to build things that work on the smallest possible length scales, atom by atom with the ultimate level of finesse. These little nanothings, and the technology that assembles and manipulates them -- nanotechnology -- will revolutionize our industries, and our lives. 
Everything we see around us is made of atoms, the tiny elemental building blocks of matter. From stone, to copper, to bronze, iron, steel, and now silicon, the major technological ages of humankind have been defined by what these atoms can do in huge aggregates, trillions upon trillions of atoms at a time, molded, shaped, and refined as macroscopic objects. Even in our vaunted microelectronics of 1999, in our highest-tech silicon computer chip the smallest feature is a mountain compared to the size of a single atom. The resultant technology of our 20th century is fantastic, but it pales when compared to what will be possible when we learn to build things at the ultimate level of control, one atom at a time.
Nature has played the game at this level for billions of years, building stuff with atomic precision. Every living thing is made of cells that are chock full of nanomachines - proteins, DNA, RNA, etc.- each jiggling around in the water of the cell, rubbing up against other molecules, going about the business of life. Each one is perfect right down to the last atom. The workings are so exquisite that changing the location or identity of any atom would cause damage. Over the past century we have learned about the workings of these biological nanomachines to an incredible level of detail, and the benefits of this knowledge are beginning to be felt in medicine. In coming decades we will learn to modify and adapt this machinery to extend the quality and length of life. Biotechnology was the first nanotechnology, and it has a long way yet to go.
Powerful as it is, Nature's biotechnology cannot do everything. It cannot make things strong like steel or conduct electricity with the speed and efficiency of copper or silicon. For this, other nanotechnologies are being developed. Carbon nanotubes, for example, are expected to produce fibers 100 times stronger than steel at only 1/6th the weight. They have been shown to be true molecular wires, and have already been assembled into the first single molecule transistor ever built. Several decades from now we may see our current silicon- based microelectronics supplanted by a carbon-based nanoelectronics of vastly greater power and scope.
Recently an Interagency Working Group on Nano Science, Engineering and Technology (IWGN) has studied the field of nanotechnology in detail, and made its recommendation to OSTP (March 10, 1999) for a new national initiative in this critical emerging area. Quoting from Mike Roco, chair of the IWGN:
"A national initiative, 'Nanotechnology for the Twenty-First Century: Leading to a New Industrial Revolution' is recommended as part of the fiscal year 2001 budget. The initiative will support long-term nanotechnology research and development, which will lead to breakthroughs in information technology, advanced manufacturing, medicine and health, environment and energy, and national security. The impact of nanotechnology on the health, wealth, and lives of people will be at least the equivalent of the combined influences of microelectronics, medical imaging, computer-aided engineering and man- made polymers developed in this century. The proposed level of additional annual funding doubles (by $260M) the current level of effort, incrementally increased over three years. This initiative will focus on fundamental research on novel phenomena, processes and tools; synthesis and processing by design; nanostructured devices, materials and systems that are high-risk, broadly enabling and are designed to have major impact; as well as on education and training of future nanotechnology workers and rapid knowledge and technology transfer." Mr. Chairman, Honorable Senators, I believe it is in our Nation's best interest to move boldly into this new field.
As additional background material, the following is excerpted from "Nanotechnology A Revolution in the Making -- Vision for R&D in the Next Decade," a report of the Interagency Working Group on Nanoscience, Engineering, and Technology, presented to the OSTP Committee on Technology, March 10, 1999.
NANOTECHNOLOGY - A REVOLUTION IN THE MAKING - VISION FOR R&D IN THE NEXT DECADE
Executive Summary
Recommendation: As part of the fiscal year 2001 budget, the IWGN recommends a national initiative. The initiative, known as NTR (Nanotechnology for the Twenty-First Century: Leading to a New Industrial Revolution), will approximately double the Federal Government's annual investment in nanotechnology research and development from its present (FY99) base of $234M per year. The increase will be incrementally grown over a three-year interval.
The NTR Initiative will address five activities: - Long-term nano science and engineering research that will lead to fundamental understanding and to discoveries of novel phenomena, processes and tools for nanotechnology. This commitment will refocus the government investment beginning in the 1950s that led to today's microelectronics, microfabrication, and computer technology;
- Synthesis and processing "by design" of engineered, nanometer-size, material building blocks and system components, fully exploiting molecular self-assembly concepts. This commitment will generate new classes of high performance materials, bio-inspired systems, paradigm changes in device design, and efficient, affordable manufacturing of high performance products. Novel properties and phenomena will be enabled, as control of structures of atoms, molecules and clusters becomes possible;
- Nanodevice concepts including system architecture research to best exploit nano-derived properties in operational systems, and combining building-up of molecular structures with ultraminiaturization. The new nanodevices will cause orders of magnitude improvements in microprocessors and mass storage, create tiny medical tools that minimize collateral damage; and enable uninhabited defense combat vehicles in fully imaged battle fields. There will be dramatic payback to programs with this National priority including information technology, nanobiotechnology and medical technology;
- Application of nanostructured materials and systems to manufacturing, power systems, energy, environment, national security, and health. Areas of interest include advanced dispersions, catalysts, separation methods, and consolidated nanostructures, as well as increase the pace of knowledge and technology transfer;
- Educate and train a new generation of skilled workers in the multidisciplinary perspectives necessary for rapid progress in nanotechnology.


Potential for NTR impact is compelling: Nano science and engineering knowledge is exploding worldwide because of the availability of new investigative tools; maturity in the biology, chemistry, engineering, materials and physics disciplines, and interdisciplinary synergism; and financial support driven by emerging technologies and their markets. The science and engineering communities have generated a flurry of new results, doubling the publication rate each two-three years. During 1998, funding agency initiatives in nanotechnology (NSF Functional Nanostructures Initiative, and DoD Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative in Nanoscience) had success rates no higher than 1 in 6, constrained only by funding limitations;
The nanotechnology revolution will lead to fundamental breakthroughs in the way materials, devices and systems are understood, designed and manufactured. Dr. Neal Lane stated at a Congressional hearing in April 1998 that, "If I were asked for an area of science and engineering that will most likely produce the breakthroughs of tomorrow, I would point to nanoscale science and engineering." Potential breakthroughs include orders-or-magnitude increases in computer efficiency; emergence of entirely new phenomena in physics and chemistry; nanofabrication of three-dimensional molecular architectures; novel processing architectures such as quantum computing and cellular automata; repair of human body with replacement parts; and a virtual presence in space;
Nanotechnology is creating a technology revolution in the way materials, devices and systems are manufactured and perform. In the last few years, applying fundamental discoveries has developed multi- billion dollar product lines. These include: giant magnetoresistance multilayers (for computer memory), nanostructured coatings (in data storage and photographic industry), nanoparticles (colorants in printing and drug delivery in pharmaceutical field), superlattice confinement effects (for optoelectronic devices and lasers), and nanostructured materials (nanocomposites and nanophase metals). John Armstrong, formerly Chief Scientist of IBM, wrote in 1991, "I believe nanoscience and nanotechnology will be central to the next epoch of the information age, and will be as revolutionary as science and technology at the micron scale have been since the early '70s." More recently, industry leaders including those at the IWGN workshop on Jan. 27-29, 1999, have extended this vision by concluding that nanoscience and technology will change the nature of almost every human-made object in the next century;
Nanoscience is an opportunity to energize the interdisciplinary connections between biology, chemistry, engineering, materials, mathematics, and physics in education. It will give birth to new fields that are only envisioned at this moment;
European and Pacific countries have developed focussed programs in the science and technology of nanostructures that will provide world-wide critical mass to this initiative, accelerate progress, and guarantee commercial competition for the results.
NTR investment strategy: - This initiative builds on previous and current nanotechnology programs, including some early investment from the Advanced Materials Processing Program, NSF instrumentation and functional nanostructures, and DoD programs supporting its Nanoscience Strategic Research Objective;- The lead-time for science maturing into technology is approximately 10-15 years; now is a critical time for government investment in the S&T of nanostructures. The leaders from industry, academe and government present at the IWGN Workshop concluded that the Federal Government was underinvesting in long-term nanotechnology research and development relative to the outstanding opportunities. The private sector is unlikely to invest in nano science and engineering research until products are 3-5 years from commercialization;
Roughly 70 percent of the funding will be for university-based research, which will also help meet the demand for skilled workers with advanced nanotechnology skills in the next century. In the academic programs, it is anticipated that 65% of the funding will be for single investigators, 15% multidisciplinary programs and 510% for nanotechnology centers that will play a similar role to the supercomputer centers, 5-10% instrumentation development and procurement, and 5% for the development of multidisciplinary educational programs. Government/industry/academic partnerships will be strongly encouraged.
*****TESTIMONY*****
NANOTECHNOLOGY - A REVOLUTION IN THE MAKING - VISION FOR R&D IN THE NEXT DECADE -
Interagency Working Group on Nano Science, Engineering and Technology (IWGN) Dr. M. Roco, IWGN Chair, mroco@nsf. gov; Dr. J. Murday, IWGN Exec Sec, murday@ccf.nrl.navy.mil
Abstract: A national initiative, "Nanotechnology for the Twenty-First Century: Leading to a New Industrial Revolution", is recommended as part of the fiscal year 2001 budget. The initiative will support longterm nanotechnology research and development, which will lead to breakthroughs in information technology, advanced manufacturing, medicine and health, environment and energy, and national security. The impact of nanotechnology on the health, wealth and lives of people will be at least the equivalent to the combined influences of microelectronics, medical imaging, computer-aided engineering and man- made polymers developed in this century. The proposed level of additional annual funding approximately doubles (by $260 M) the current level of effort, incrementally increased over three years. This initiative will focus on fundamental research on novel phenomena, processes and tools; synthesis and processing by design; nanostructured devices, materials and systems that are high risk, broadly enabling and are designed to have major impact; as well as education and training of future nanotechnology workers and rapid knowledge and technology transfer.
Contents: 1. Nanotechnology Definition 2. Revolution in the Making: Driving Forces 3. Nanotechnology Impact (Information Technology, Medicine and Health, Materials and Manufacturing, Aeronautics and Space Exploration, Environment and Energy, National Security, Global Competitiveness, Science and Education). 4. Investment Opportunities 5. High-level Recognition of the Potential 6. A National Initiative: Leading to a New Industrial Revolution Attachment: Several examples of nanotechnology applications
1. Nanotechnology Definition Nanotechnology is concerned with materials and systems whose structures and components exhibit novel and significantly improved physical, chemical and biological properties, phenomena and processes because of their small nanoscale size. Structural features in the range of about 10-9 to 10-7m (1 to 100 nanometers) determine important changes as compared to the behavior of isolated molecules (1 nanometer) or of bulk materials. For comparison, 10 nanometers are 1000 times smaller than the diameter of a human hair.
We can exploit novel properties and phenomena of nano-based entities as we gain control of structures and devices at the atomic, molecular and supramolecular levels, and as we learn how to efficiently manufacture and use these devices. New behavior at the nanoscale is not necessarily predictable from that observed at large size scales. Important changes in behavior are caused not by the order of magnitude size reduction, but also by new phenomena such as size confinement, predominance of interfacial phenomena, quantum mechanics and Coulomb blockade. It is notable that all relevant phenomena at nanoscale are caused by the tiny size of the organized structure as compared to molecular scale, and by the interactions at their predominant and complex interfaces. Once we are able to control feature size, we can enhance material properties and device functions beyond those that we currently know or even imagine. Reducing the dimensions of structures leads to entities with novel properties, such as carbon nanotubes, quantum wires and dots, thin films, DNA based structures, and laser emitters. Such new forms of materials and devices herald a revolutionary age for science and technology provided that we can discover and fully utilize the underlying principles.
2. Revolution in the Making: Driving Forces
In 1959 Richard Feynman delivered a now famous lecture, "There is Plenty of Room at the Bottom." He stimulated his audience with the expectation of exciting new discoveries if one could fabricate materials and devices at the atomic/molecular scale. For this to happen, he pointed out the necessity of a new class of miniaturized instrumentation to manipulate and measure the properties of these small structures--nanostructures.


It was not until the 1980s that miniaturization of instruments actually surfaced in developments like scanning tunneling microscopes, force microscopies and near field microscopes. These instrument classes exploited microfabrication technology to enable nanometer resolution--a wide variety of the "eyes" and "fingers" required for nanostructure measurement and manipulation. In a parallel development, augmented computational capability now enables sophisticated computer simulations of nanostructures. These new techniques have sparked excitement in nearly all parts of the scientific community. Traditional models and theories for most material properties and device operations involve assumptions leading to "critical scale lengths" that are frequently larger than 100 nm. When the dimensions of a material structure is under the respective critical length scale, then the models and theories are not able to describe the novel phenomena. Scientists in all materials and technology disciplines are in avid pursuit of the fabrication and measurement of nanostructures to see where and what kind of interesting new phenomena occur. Further, nanostructures offer a new paradigm for materials manufacture by assembling (ideally utilizing self-organization and self-assembly) to create an entity rather than the laborious chiseling away from a larger structure.
Strong financial support for this research and development is motivated by the impressive potential for economic return, including continued improvement in electronics/electrooptics for information technology; higher performance, low maintenance materials in manufacturing, defense, space and environmental applications; and acceleration of biotechnology for medical, health and agricultural uses. John Armstrong, formerly Chief Scientist of IBM, wrote in 1991, "I believe nanoscience and nanotechnology will be central to the next epoch of the information age, and will be as revolutionary as science and technology at the micron scale have been since the early '70s." More recently, industry leaders including those at the IWGN workshop on Jan. 27-29 have extended this vision by concluding that nanoscience and technology will change the nature of almost every human-made object in the next century. Such significant improvements in materials performance and changes in manufacturing paradigms will lead to an industrial revolution.
Federal support of the nanotechnology infrastructure is necessary to enable the U.S. to compete in the global marketplace. 3. Nanotechnology Impact
The potential benefits of nanotechnology are pervasive:
Information Technology. The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) has developed a roadmap for the continued enhancements in miniaturization, speed and power consumption reduction of information processing devices--sensors for signal acquisition, logic devices for processing, storage devices for memory and displays for visualization. The roadmap projects the future to approximately 2010 and to 0.1- micron (100 nm) structures, just short of nanostructure devices. There are several reasons why it stops at 100 nm. First, it is not clear how to economically fabricate nanostructured electronics. Second, even if fabricated, the physical/chemical properties of those nanostructures are unknown; the present electronic devices are all based on models with critical scale lengths in the 100+ nm range. Third, without known properties it is impossible to design a functional device, fabricate and assemble the devices into a working system. The SIA roadmap explicitly calls for "sustained government support if this industry is to continue to provide for strong economic growth in the U.S." The lead-time for science maturing into technology is approximately 10-15 years; so now is the critical time for government investment in the science and technology of nanostructures for timely impact in information technology. Further, the investment will have spin-offs that enable the attainment (or acceleration) of the roadmap goals. The area of magnetic information storage is illustrative. Within ten years of the fundamental discovery of the new phenomenon of giant magnetoresistance, this new nanotechnology completely replaced older technologies for disk computer heads in the $34 B/yr hard disk market (1998). Other potential breakthroughs include: (a) orders of magnitude improvement in microprocessors - nanostructured transistors will continue the trend in lower cost per transistor and use less energy, thereby improving the efficiency of computers by a factor of millions; (b) changes in communications paradigms as higher frequencies (faster speeds) provide 10 times more bandwidth, with consequences in business, education, entertainment and defense; (c) expansion of small mass storage devices to multi-terabit capacities, 100 times better than today; and (d) integrated sensor systems that collect data utilizing minimal power, space and weight. Applications include: (a) affordable virtual reality stations to provide individualized teaching a/ds (and entertainment), (b) sufficient computational capability to enable uninhabited combat vehicles (and civilian transportation), and (c) communication capability that obviates much business travel (including commuting to a work place) in an era when transport fuels will be dramatically more expensive.
Medicine & Health. Living systems are governed by molecular behavior at nanometer scales where the disciplines of chemistry, physics, biology and computer simulation all now converge. Such multidisciplinary insights will stimulate nanobiotechnology progress far beyond its already impressive record of accomplishments in medicine and health over the last ten years. The molecular building blocks of life - proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates and their non-biological mimics - are examples of materials that possess unique properties determined by their size, folding and patterns at the nanoscale. We can now probe single molecule properties; this new information will complement (and largely supplant) the ensemble average techniques of present day life sciences. New analytical tools capable of probing the nanometer world will also make it possible to characterize chemical and mechanical properties of cells, of interest in cellular biology and pathology, including processes such as cell division, metabolism, regulation and locomotion. Utilization of nanofabricated surfaces and devices will increase the speed of genome sequencing by orders of magnitude, and thus our ability to probe and decode the fundamental nature of living systems. Coupling these advances in our knowledge of living systems, with the unique capabilities imparted by nanostructures and materials, we will be in a position to detect and intervene in pathology and disease using biologically inspired systems. Integration of biocompatible materials with fluidic, optic, mechanical and electronic components, all at micro to nano scale, will enable development of in vivo-implantable devices. For example, remote, non-invasive sensing systems will allow us to detect the earliest stages of emerging disease, whether caused by infection or tissue malfunction, and prevent overt disease development. Such early sensing will be coupled to better means of intervention such as coated particles to provide new routes for drug delivery, nano surgical approaches, and implantable drug synthesis and delivery systems, making prevention and therapy less costly, less traumatic for patients, and more effective. Applications include: (a) Rapid, efficient genome sequencing, which will permit the characterization of each individual's genetics, thereby enabling a revolution in diagnostics and therapeutics; (b) Intracellular sensors, which will allow for further understanding of the basic properties of living (normal and diseased) cells; (c) New formulations and routes for drug delivery, which will enormously broaden their therapeutic potential by effecting delivery of new types of medicine to sites in the body that were previously inaccessible; (d) More durable, rejection-resistant artificial organs will be developed from new biocompatible, high performance materials based on their surface nanostructure; (e) Sensing systems, which will allow the detection of emerging disease in the living body, and will ultimately shift the focus of patient care from disease treatment to early detection and/or prevention.
Materials and Manufacturing. Nanotechnology is fundamentally changing the way materials and devices will be produced in the future, including ceramics, metals, polymers, and their composites. The ability to synthesize nanoscale building blocks with precisely controlled size and composition and then to assemble them into larger structures with unique properties and functions will revolutionize segments of materials manufacturing. At present we perceive only the tip of the iceberg in terms of the benefits that nanostructuring can bring: lighter, stronger, and programmable materials, reductions in life-cycle costs through lower failure rates, innovative devices based on new principles and architectures, and use of molecular/cluster manufacturing. Molecular/cluster manufacturing takes advantage of assembly at the nanoscale level for a given purpose. Structures not previously observed in the nature can be developed. Challenges include: synthesis of materials by design, developments of bit- and bit-inspired materials, development of cost-effective and scalable production techniques, and determination of the nanoscale initiators of materials failure. Applications include: (a) net-shape manufacturing of nanostructured metals and ceramics; (b) improved printing brought about by nanometer-scale particles that have the best properties of both dyes and pigments; (c) nanoscale cemented and plated carbides and nanocoatings for cutting tools, electronic, chemical and structural applications; and (d) nanofabrication on a chip with high levels of complexity and functionality.


Aeronautics and Space Exploration. The stringent fuel constraints for lifting payloads into earth orbit and beyond, and the desire to send spacecraft away from the sun (diminished solar power) for extended missions, compel continued reduction in size, weight and power consumption of payloads. Nanostructured materials are also critical to lightweight, high-strength, thermally stable materials for planes, rockets, space station and planetary/solar exploratory platforms. The low gravity, high vacuum space environment may help develop nanostructures and assembled nanostructures that cannot be created on Earth. Applications include: (a) Low power, radiation hard, high performance computers; (b) Nanoinstrumentation for microspacecraft; (c) Avionics; and (d) Thermal barrier and wear resistant nanostructured coatings.Environment and Energy. Nanotechnology will have potentially significant impacts on energy efficiency, storage and production. It can can be used to monitor and remediate environmental problems; improve control emissions from a wide range of sources, and develop new, 'green' processing technologies that minimize the generation of undesirable by-products. The impact on industrial control, manufacturing and processing will be impressive and result in saving energy. Several technologies, developed without the benefit of the new nanoscale analytical capabilities or in development, illustrate that potential: (a) The Mobil Oil Co. long-term research program into the use of crystalline materials as catalyst supports has yielded catalysts with well defined pore sizes in the range of 1 nm; their use is now the basis of an industry that exceeds $30 B/yr; (b) The discovery of the ordered mesoporous material MCM-41 by the Mobil Oil Co., with pore size in the range 10 to 100 nm, that is widely applied in removal of ultrafine contaminants; (c) The Dow Chemical Co. has developed a nanoparticle-reinforced polymeric material that can replace metallic components in the auto industry; the wide spread use of those nanocomposites could lead to a reduction of 1.5 billion liters of gasoline consumption over the life of one year's fleet of vehicles and reduce the related dioxide emissions by more than five billion kilograms; (d) the replacement of carbon black in tires by nanometer-scale particles of inorganic clays and polymers is a new technology that is leading to the production of environmentally- friendly wear-resistant tires. Potential future breakthroughs also include use of nanorobotics and intelligent systems for environment and nuclear waste management.
National Security. The Department of Defense recognized the importance of nanostructures over a decade ago and has played a significant role in nurturing the field. Critical defense applications include: (a) Continued information dominance, identified as an important capability for the military, will depend on U.S. nanotechnology. (b) Nanostructured electronics will provide more sophisticated virtual reality systems that enable affordable, effective training. (c) Reduction in military manpower must be compensated by the increased use of nanostructure-enhanced automation and robotics, both of which will benefit from nanostructures. The use of uninhabited combat vehicles is desired, both to reduce risk to human life as well as to improve vehicle performance. For example, several thousand pounds could be stripped from a pilotless fighter aircraft, resulting in longer missions. In addition, the fighter agility could be dramatically improved without the necessity to limit g-forces on the pilot, increasing its combat effectiveness. (d) Nanostructured materials hold the promise for the high performance (lighter, stronger) needed in military platforms while simultaneously providing diminished failure rates and lower life-cycle costs. (e) Advances in medicine and health enabled by nanoscience will provide badly needed chemical/biological/nuclear sensing, protection and improvements in casualty care. (f) Changes are also possible in the design and weight reduction of nuclear weapons and systems used in non-proliferation.
Other Applications. Potential benefits from nano science and technology affect other government agency missions, including: (a) more economical and reliable transportation systems (DOT), (b) measurement, control and remediation of contaminants (EPA), (c) forensic research (DO J), and (d) printing and engraving (BEP).
Global Trade and Competitiveness. Technology is the major driving factor for growth at every level of our economy. Nanotechnology is expected to be pervasive and ubiquitous in its applications across all technologies. Investment in nanotechnology research and development is necessary to maintain and improve our position in the world marketplace. This initiative will allow the development of critical enabling technologies with broad commercial potential. These enabling technologies include manufacturing and the measurement and standards tools necessary for U.S. industry to take advantage of nanotechnology innovations and improve our capability to compete globally.Science and Education. The science, engineering and technology of nanostructures will require and enable advances in a fabric of disciplines: physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics and engineering. In their evolution as disciplines they all find themselves simultaneously ready to effectively address nanostructures. This provides an unprecedented opportunity to revitalize the connections between physics, mathematics, chemistry, biology and engineering in education. The dynamics of the interdisciplinary nanostructure efforts will revitalize educational connections between disciplines and will give birth to new fields that are only envisioned at this moment. This opportunity requires change in the laboratory and human resource infrastructure in universities, and in the education of nanotechnology professionals, especially for industry. 4. Investment Opportunities
Nanoscale science and engineering knowledge is exploding worldwide because of the availability of new investigative tools and interdisciplinary synergism, and is driven by emerging technologies and their applications. New experimental and modeling tools have made possible such discoveries, opening windows of research opportunities. The number of revolutionary discoveries reported in nanotechnology can be expected to accelerate in the next decade, and is likely to profoundly affect existing and emerging technologies in almost all industry sectors and application areas, including computing and communications, pharmaceuticals and chemicals, environmental technologies, energy conservation, manufacturing and healthcare- related technologies. As a result of the highly competitive and dynamic characteristic of nanotechnology and of the potential high return on investment, the opportunity to establish a special initiative is significant. There is a clear need to create a balanced infrastructure for nanoscale science, engineering, technology and human resources development in this revolutionary field.
The reported Federal Government expenditure for nanotechnology in fiscal year 1997 was $116 M (WTEC Study, 1998; Nanotechnology as defined there only included work to generate and use nanostructures and nanodevices; it did not include the simple observation and description of phenomena at the nanoscale that is part of nanoscience). It is estimated to be at over $230 M in fiscal year 1999. A much greater investment could be utilized effectively. Funding agencies and professional societies are experiencing a flurry of new results in nanotechnology, and a growing interest within the research community. The funding success rate for the small-group interdisciplinary research program, FY98 NSF "Functional Nanostructures" initiative, was about 13% (lower if one considers the limitation of two proposals per university). The success rate for the DoD 1998 MURI initiative on nanostructures was 17% (5% if one starts with the number of white papers submitted to guide proposal development).
The promise of nanotechnology must be realized through a balanced investment: - Nanostructure Properties: develop and extend our understanding of biological, chemical, electronic, magnetic, optical, and structural properties in nanostructures. - Synthesis and Processing: enable the atomic and molecular control of material building blocks, and engineering that provides the means to assemble and utilize these tailored building blocks for new processes and devices in a wide variety of applications. Extend the traditional approaches to patterning and microfabrication to include parallel processing with proximal probes, stamping and embossing. Particular attention must be given to the interface with bionanostructures and bioinspired structures, multifuctional and adaptive nanostructures, scaling approaches, and affordability at commercial scales.
Characterization and Manipulation: new experimental tools to broaden the capability to measure and control nanostructured matter, including the development of new standards of measurement.Particular attention must be given to tools capable of measuring/manipulating single macro- and supra-molecules of biological interest. - Modeling and Simulation: accelerate the application of high performance computation to the prediction of nanostuctured properties and phenomena, and materials by design. - Device and System Concepts: stimulate the innovative application of nanostructure properties in ways that might be exploited in new technologies.
International Perspective: The U.S. does not dominate nanotechnology research.

There is strong international interest, with nearly twice as much research ongoing overseas as in the United States. Other regions, particularly Japan and Europe, are supporting work that is equal to the quality and breadth of the science done in the U.S. because they have determined that nanotechnology has the potential to be a major economic factor during the next several decades. This situation is unlike the other post-war technological revolutions, where U.S. enjoyed earlier advances. The 1991 Congressional Office of Technology Assessment report, Miniaturization Technologies, states that "the competitive position of U.S. R&D in miniaturization technology remains strong, although competition from Japanese and European industry and governments has increased."
The international dimensions of nanotechnology research and its potential applications implies that the United States must put in place an infrastructure that is equal to that which exists anywhere in the world. This emerging field also creates a unique opportunity for the United States to partner with other countries in ways that are mutually beneficial through information sharing, cooperative research, and study by young U.S. researchers at foreign centers of excellence. A suitable U.S. infrastructure is also needed to compete and collaborate with those groups.
5. High-level Recognition of the Potential
The potential of this technology has not passed unnoticed. Then- Senator Gore held the first hearing on nanotechnology in 1992. The Defense Department identified nanotechnology as a strategic research objective in 1997, and NSF has highlighted nanoscale science and technology in its fiscal year 1999 budget. In March 1998, the President's Science Advisor Dr. John H. Gibbons identified nanotechnology as one of the six technologies that will determine economical development in the next century. Dr. Neal Lane, former NSF director, stated at a Congressional hearing in April 1998 that, "If I were asked for an area of science and engineering that will most likely produce the breakthroughs of tomorrow, I would point to nanoscale science and engineering."
Expert opinions in industry and academia (e.g. PCAST, National Academy, industry and professional organizations) on research needs and opportunities should be collected.
6. A National Initiative: Leading to New Industrial Revolution
Role of Government in nano science and technology: Nanotechnology research is in an early stage and has several promising results. It is clear that it can have a substantial impact on industry and on our standard of living. But investments must be made in the basic science and technologies that will enable scientists and engineers to invent totally new technologies and enable industry to produce costcompetitive products. Much of the results on nanostructures and nanoprocesses are not yet fully measurable, replicable or understood, and will require many years to develop corresponding technologies. Industry is unable in the 3-5 year industrial product time frame to effectively develop cost competitive products out of current knowledge. Fundamental nanotechnology research and development is too costly, long-term and risky for private industry to undertake. There are critical areas of research and development that are being ignored by industry or have significant underinvestment. Companies will not provide the investment needed to establish the nanoscience infrastructure and to fund long-term research needed to realize the potential. The fundamental infrastructure that industry uses to develop new products needs to be strengthened and expanded.
Nanotechnology cannot flourish without strong supporting science programs because of the scale and complexity of the nanosystems. Nanotechnology research is the USA has been developed in open competition with other research topics within various disciplines. This is one of the reasons that the USA research efforts in nanotechnology are relatively fragmented and partially overlapping among disciplines, areas of relevance, and sources of funding
Therefore, the Federal Government needs to invest in the infrastructure necessary for the United States to lead and benefit from the revolution that is coming. It needs to expand university and national laboratory facilities, build the workplace skills necessary to staff future industries based on nanotechnology, encourage cross- disciplinary networks and partnerships, ensure the distribution and spread of information, and encourage small businesses to develop the instruments and tools needed.
Nanotechnology R&D requires long-term investment: Nanoscience and engineering will need a long-term investment because of the interdisciplinary characteristic, limitations of the existing experimental and modeling tools in the intermediate range between individual molecules and bulk, and the need for technological infrastructure. The time from fundamental discovery to market is typically 10-15 years (see for instance the application of magnetoresistance by IBM, and of mesoporous silicate by Mobil Oil Co.). Historically, industry becomes a major player only in the last 3-5 years, when the investments are much larger than in the previous period but the economic return more certain. Government leadership and funds are needed to establish the infrastructure and research support in the first 7-12 years. Since major industrial markets are not yet established for nanotechnology products, the government should also support technology transfer activities to accelerate the long-term benefits.
Technological innovation and commercialization is taking place at an ever-increasing pace. The enabling infrastructure and technologies must be in place for industry to take advantage of nanotechnology innovations and discoveries. Industry is frequently reluctant to invest in risky research that takes many years to develop into a product. In the U.S., the government and university research system fills this gap. The increasing pace of technological commercialization requires a compression of past time scales and parallel development of research and commercial products and a synergy among industry, university, and government partners.
The priority research areas for additional funding in FY2001 are: - Long-term nano science and engineering research that will lead to fundamental understanding and to discoveries of novel phenomena, processes, experimental and simulation tools for nanotechnology. This commitment will rival and refocus the government investment beginning in the 1950s that led to today's microelectronics, microfabrication, and computer technology; (Request $75M); - Synthesis and processing "by design" of engineered, nanometer-size, material building blocks and system components, fully exploiting self organization concepts. This commitment will generate new classes of high performance materials, bio-inspired systems, changes in device design paradigms, and efficient, affordable manufacturing of high performance products. Novel properties and phenomena will be enabled, as control of organizational structures of atoms, molecules and clusters becomes possible; (Request $60M); - Nanodevice concepts including system architecture research to best exploit their properties in operational systems, and combining building-up of molecular structures with ultraminiaturization. The nanodevices will cause paradigm changes such as order-of-magnitude improvements in microprocessors and mass storage, overall selective drug and gene delivery systems, use of tiny medical tools that minimize collateral damage; and uninhabited defense combat vehicles in fully imaged battle field. There will be dramatic payback to programs with National priority including information technology, nanobiotechnology and medical technology; (Request $58M) - Application of nanostructured materials and systems to manufacturing, power systems, energy, environment, national security, and health. Areas of interest include advanced dispersions, catalysts, separation methods, and consolidated nanostructures; Develop core enabling technologies such as fundamental molecular scale measurement and manipulation tools and standard methods, materials, and data that will be applied to many commercial sectors (Request $58M); - Educate and train a new generation of skilled workers in the multidisciplinary perspectives necessary for rapid progress in nanotechnology; (Request $10M)
Common Themes:
Funding modes: - Need for sustained support to individual investigators and small- groups doing fundamental, innovative research; Larger investment should be given at the beginning to funding fundamental research, as well as to development of university-industry-laboratories and interagency partnerships; - Interdisciplinarity and the need for correspondingly appropriate funding modes (interdisciplinary programs, centers and networks); - Encourage research and users' networks; The establishment of 5-10 nanotechnology research centers similar to the supercomputer centers will play an important role in development and use of the specific tools in the next decade, and in promoting partnerships. An expansion of the existing NNUN users network may be considered.

Two thirds of the funds will be used for individual and small group investigators; - Encourage university-industry-national labs and international collaborations. Knowledge and technology transfer between universities and industry will be encouraged. Develop enabling infrastructure so that new discoveries and innovations can be rapidly commercialized by U.S. industry.
Research areas: - Nanoelectronics and information technology - Multi-scale, hierarchical modeling and simulation of nanostructures and nanoprocesses - Development of experimental methods and devices to measure various properties and phenomena at nanoscale; Combine measurement, manipulation and manufacturing tools; - Connection to biology (biostructures & bio-inspired systems) - Synthesis, assembly and processing of nanostructured materials 'by design' - System architecture and devices - Focus on fundamentals that are broadly enabling of many areas of technology and that help industry to develop new competitive, profitable products that industry would not develop on its own.
Partnerships: - Among disciplines (small group research) - Among institutions & types of institutions (e.g., universities, industry, government labs) - Among countries - Among U.S. government funding agencies and states; support for complementary activities - Joint funding and use of centers (facilities) - International collaborations to promote access to centers of excellence abroad, visits by young researchers abroad, and bilateral and multilateral agreements
Infrastructure Needs for Nanotechnology: The nanotechnology initiative requires a balanced, predictable, strong, but flexible infrastructure to stimulate the further rapid growth of the field. Ideas, concepts and techniques are moving at such an exceedingly rapid pace that the field needs coordination and focus from a national perspective. Demands are high and the potential is great for universities and government to continue to evolve and transition this science and technology to bring forth the changes in technology that will enable U.S. industry to commercialize many new products in all sectors of the economy, Even greater demands are on industry to attract new ideas, protect intellectual property, and develop appropriate products. This field has major multidisciplinary aspects, which are difficult to coordinate in a formless fashion. If these issues are not addressed, the United States will fall behind world developments and, therefore, have difficulty maintaining the economy and quality of life and security that exist today.
Tools must be provided to investigators in nanotechnology for them to carry out state-of-the-art research to achieve this potential and remain competitive. The tools will include but not be limited to such items as ion beam neutron and photon sources, instruments for manipulation, new forms of lithographs, computational capabilities and other systems to characterize the nano-scale systems. Centers, with multiple grantees or laboratories, where these tools would be available for this support should be established at a level of several million dollars annually. These centers should also have the diverse research teams that will be effective in different scientific disciplines. We should also investigate means to achieve the remote use of these facilities. Funding mechanisms that encourage centers, university, laboratory, industrial collaboration should be emphasized, as well as single investigators who are tied into these networks. One of the major potential barriers of cooperative efforts is intellectual property fights.
Support to single investigators for their competence and imaginative programs should provide a corresponding level of personnel support and equipment. University grants should encourage work among research groups to make maximum use of concepts and ideas being developed in other disciplines. The infrastructure includes building links between researchers, developers and users of nanotechnology innovations. The initiative will develop critical enabling technologies that will have significant value added in many industries. The initiative will allow U.S.. industry to develop new profitable products that will maintain and improve our global competitiveness in short (3-5 years) and long term. It will be necessary to fund training of students and support of postdocs under fellowships that will attract some of the best students available. This is extremely important considering the rapid change in the research. Students should receive multidisciplinary training in various nanotechnology fields. Both organizational attention and funding should also be devoted to ensuring the open exchange of information in multidisciplinary meetings and rapid publication of results, through, for example, workshops and widely disseminated summaries of research. Because of the fast evolving nature of nano-technology and its importance to our society, the program management must be flexible with the capability of changes needed. Working groups to make recommendations to modify the program as it evolves should be supported.
END



*******************

Article 742

The contributions basic research makes to the Nation's economy may not be may not be readily apparent, but they are no less real. Sometimes it takes five, 10, even 15 years before the fundamental work being performed in the lab today is adopted in the mainstream economy. But by providing the pipeline of new knowledge, new ideas, and new technologies, basic research helps keep America at the cutting edge of science and technology.
Largely as a result of basic research performed here in the U.S., we are now the leader in numerous high-technology fields--in computers, pharmaceuticals, communications, materials science, nanotechnology, and many other areas--and that has given us a competitive edge in global markets. I believe maintaining the Nation's global scientific and economic leadership--the two often go hand-in-hand--provides the best justification for funding basic research.
There are a number of new initiatives in this year's NSF budget, and I would like to commend Director Colwell for setting clear research priorities in information technology, biotechnology, and education. I know how difficult it is to establish priorities in science funding-- it all seems important--but because discretionary funding is getting squeezed, I think it is incumbent on agency heads to make tough choices, so I am pleased that NSF has done just that.
The Subcommittee has already dealt with the information technology initiative in a previous hearing, but I would still like to get a more detailed view of what NSF's role will be; I hope that the panel will address this. And like most people, I am a little confused as to what the new biocomplexity initiative is all about and how it is different from, say, ecology. Again, I will be looking to the panel for some help. Along with science and math education, which appears to be on everyone's mind these days, these are just some of the issues that I hope will be addressed in today's hearing.
I would like to thank our two panelists for appearing before the Subcommittee today and I look forward to hearing their testimony.
END


*******************

Article 743

Kentucky - From my involvement in Kentucky's EPSCoR programs, I would like to cite a range of EPSCoR research projects from both NASA and NSF EPSCoR. Both of these programs have enabled Kentucky researchers, universities and the state to make major strides in becoming competitive.achieve automated recognition of objects or features in images. Their results will be widely applicable for robotic vision, space exploration, defense systems, surveillance, and medical imaging. Another project is one in which University of Kentucky researchers are concerned with fluid volume regulation and cardiorespiratory responses with implications for prevention of heart attack and stroke. The interests to NASA are, of course, the responses to weightlessness and hypotensive challenges in space and effects on return to earth. Others are developing chemical sensors for use in space habitats, environmental safety applications, and biomedical monitors. Still others are studying processes for manufacturing in space, flame spread behavior for fire safety in space, materials processing for space energy needs, and high energy astrophysics.
Kentucky NSF EPSCoR enabled University of Louisville researchers to upgrade their research facilities and establish a Molecular Neurobiology Research and Training Program. EPSCoR-initiated materials science research at the University of Louisville has led to funding for studies of the fabrication of gamma-ray detectors for use in space and medical imaging. EPSCoR startup funding for the University of Kentucky led to a grant from NSF for a Materials Research Science and Engineering Center, one of only about 20 in the Nation. At the University of Louisville, NSF provided follow-on funding for a Laboratory for Computer Vision and Image Processing, as well as the Three-Dimensional Nanoscale Imaging Facility, with applications in electronics and medicine that will enhance the technological competitiveness of Kentucky universities, businesses, and industry.
I will cite a few other examples, among many, of competitive awards following EPSCoR funding. A $2.25 million Integrated Chemical Sensor Design graduate training program has been awarded to the University of Kentucky by NSF. A $300,000 Large Scale Simulations grant was awarded to the University of Louisville. A Phase I SBIR (NSF) and over $1.5 million in other non-EPSCoR funding have been awarded to Western Kentucky University for a neutron activation detection process, originally developed under the EPSCoR Program. Equivalent success stories for both NASA and NSF researchers are found in every state with an EPSCoR program.


*******************

Article 744

Technologies licensed from academia have been instrumental in spawning entire new industries, improving the productivity and competitiveness of companies, and creating new companies and jobs. Research at the University of Pennsylvania in the 1940's resulted in ENIAC, the first electronic calculator and forerunner of today's computers. Today's telecommunications industry relies on laser and fiber optic research done at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1960's and 1970's. The biotechnology industry is based on recombinant DNA research done at Stanford University and the University of California in the 1970's. The Internet and its burgeoning commercial activity comes largely from research in supercomputing at the University of Illinois in the 1980's.

'40's electronic Penn Computers calculator '60's Fiber Optics MIT Telecommunications '70's rDNA Stanford Biotechnology Univ. of California '80's Supercomputing Univ. of lllinois Internet
More recently, improved data compression technologies discovered at Iowa State University and now used in fax machines, and faster modems for data communication developed at the University of Maryland have changed the way we do business. The atomic force microscope (AFM) offered breakthrough technology developed at the University of California, making it possible to visualize dynamic events in living cells. A new internet search engine developed at Carnegie Mellon University was the basis for Lycos, Inc. Improved methods for sequencing DNA developed at the California Institute of Technology is a basic enabling technology for the Human Genome Project.
Starting New Businesses


*******************

Article 745

Today's telecommunications industry relies on laser and fiber optic research done at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1960's and 1970's. The biotechnology industry is based on recombinant DNA research done at Stanford University and the University of California in the 1970's. The Internet and its burgeoning commercial activity comes largely from research in supercomputing at the University of Illinois in the 1980's. More recently, improved data compression technologies discovered at Iowa State University and now used in fax machines, and faster modems for data communication developed at the University of Maryland have changed the way we do business. The atomic force microscope (AFM) offered breakthrough technology developed at the University of California, making it possible to visualize dynamic events in living cells. A new internet search engine developed at Carnegie Mellon University was the basis for Lycos, Inc. Improved methods for sequencing DNA developed at the California Institute of Technology is a basic enabling technology for the Human Genome Project. Starting New Businesses Basic science discoveries at academic institutions are often too embryonic for commercialization by large companies. Increasingly, universities are looking to the creation of new businesses to further develop and incubate technologies for the marketplace. In FY97, 333 new businesses were started to move new discoveries from the laboratory to the marketplace, an increase of 34% from FY96. The vast majority of these new spin-off companies, 83%, locate in the region in which the technology was discovered. 

*******************

Article 746

- SC also provided support for the $100 million detector, Super- Kamiokande, operated by a collaboration of 120 physicists from 23 institutions headed by the University of Tokyo's Institute for Cosmic Ray Research (ICRR). This experiment demonstrated that the supposedly massless neutrino must, in fact, have a non-zero rest mass. Once verified, this discovery will force a revision in the Standard Model, which assumes a massless neutrino and may alter our estimates of the total mass of the universe, with implications for understanding its origin and eventual fate.
- Incredibly light synthetic metals with a potential electrical conductivity 50-100 times better than copper per weight are being made from carbon nanotubes doped with metals. First discovered in 1991, nanotubes are a new class of materials formed from graphite-like sheets of carbon rolled into exquisitely small cylinders (one- billionth of a meter). - Microbial genomics, one of today's most exciting and high profile fields in biology, was initiated by DOE in 1994. Science Magazine also identified microbial genomics as one of the top 10 fields of discovery in 1998. Two of the 1997 "11 hottest papers in biology" were for microbial genomic sequences funded by SC. For example, SC research on "Conan the Bacterium" - D. radiodurans RI, has shown extreme resistance to genotoxic chemicals, oxidative damage, high levels of ionizing and UV radiation, and desiccation. The ability to survive such extreme environments is attributed in part to a unique DNA repair system in combination with its chromosome copy number and structure. The remarkable capabilities of this microbe may enable scientists to engineer a form of D. Radiodurans that can help us clean up some of our most troublesome waste problems.


*******************

Article 747

The implication is that Einstein was right when he suggested that there is a mysterious energy that fills "empty" space and that most of the energy of the universe is in this form. The finding raises profound questions about the nature of space and the ultimate fate of the universe including fundamental new questions for physics. As a result, Science Magazine named The Accelerating Universe "the 1998 Breakthrough of the Year"
7 SC also provided support for the $100 million detector, Super- Kamiokande, operated by a collaboration of 120 physicists from 23 institutions headed by the University of Tokyo's Institute for Cosmic Ray Research (ICRR). This experiment demonstrated that the supposedly massless neutrino must, in fact, have a non-zero rest mass. Once verified, this discovery will force a revision in the Standard Model, which assumes a massless neutrino and may alter our estimates of the total mass of the universe, with implications for understanding its origin and eventual fate.
7 Incredibly light synthetic metals with a potential electrical conductivity 50-100 times better than copper per weight are being made from carbon nanotubes doped with metals. First discovered in 1991, nanotubes are a new class of materials formed from graphite-like sheets of carbon rolled into exquisitely small cylinders (one- billionth of a meter).
7 Microbial genomics, one of today's most exciting and high profile fields in biology, was initiated by DOE in 1994. Science Magazine also identified microbial genomics as one of the top 10 fields of discovery in 1998. Two of the 1997 "11 hottest papers in biology" were for microbial genomic sequences funded by SC. For example, SC research on "Corian the Bacterium" - D. radiodurans R1, has shown extreme resistance to genotoxic chemicals, oxidative damage, high levels of ionizing and UV radiation, and desiccation. The ability to survive such extreme environments is attributed in part to a unique DNA repair system in combination with its chromosome copy number and structure. The remarkable capabilities of this microbe may enable scientists to engineer a form of D. Radiodurans that can help us clean up some of our most troublesome waste problems.
7 The Human Genome Program was initiated by the Department of Energy (DOE) in 1986 to map and determine the complete DNA sequence of the human genome. A Memorandum of Understanding was established with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in 1988 to coordinate the U.S. Genome Project. The latest joint five-year plan was published in Science Magazine in October 1998. This plan calls for determining the complete sequence of the human genome by the year 2003, two years ahead of the original target date. Recent successes include identifying the gene for kidney disease.
7 SC has renewed our commitment to forging more effective partnerships that leverage our research investments and connect us more closely with other federal science programs and the direct beneficiaries of our research.


*******************

Article 748

The implication is that Einstein was right when he suggested that there is a mysterious energy that fills "empty" space and that most of the energy of the universe is in this form. The finding raises profound questions about the nature of space and the ultimate fate of the universe including fundamental new questions for physics. As a result, Science Magazine named The Accelerating Universe "the 1998 Breakthrough of the Year ". - SC also provided support for the $ 100 million detector, Super- Kamiokande, operated by a collaboration of 120 physicists from 23 institutions headed by the University of Tokyo's Institute for Cosmic Ray Research (ICRR). This experiment demonstrated that the supposedly massless neutrino must, in fact, have a non-zero rest mass. Once verified, this discovery will force a revision in the Standard Model, which assumes a massless neutrino and may alter our estimates of the total mass of the universe, with implications for understanding its origin and eventual fate. - Incredibly light synthetic metals with a potential electrical conductivity 50- 100 times better than copper per weight are being made from carbon nanotubes doped with metals. First discovered in 1991, nanotubes are a new class of materials formed from graphite-like sheets of carbon rolled into exquisitely small cylinders (one-billionth of a meter). - Microbial genomics, one of today's most exciting and high profile fields in biology, was initiated by DOE in 1994. Science Magazine also identified microbial genomics as one of the top 10 fields of discovery in 1998. Two of the 1997 "11 hottest papers in biology" were for microbial genomic sequences funded by SC. For example, SC research on "Conan the Bacterium" - D. radiodurans R1, has shown extreme resistance to genotoxic chemicals, oxidative damage, high levels of ionizing and UV radiation, and desiccation. The ability to survive such extreme environments is attributed in part to a unique DNA repair system in combination with its chromosome copy number and structure. The remarkable capabilities of this microbe may enable scientists to engineer a form of D. Radiodurans that can help us clean up some of our most troublesome waste problems. - The Human Genome Program was initiated by the Department of Energy (DOE) in 1986 to map and determine the complete DNA sequence of the human genome. A Memorandum of Understanding was established with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in 1988 to coordinate the U.S. Genome Project.

*******************

Article 749

* SC also provided support for the $100 million detector, Super- Kamiokande, operated by a collaboration of 120 physicists from 23 institutions headed by the University of Tokyo's Institute for Cosmic Ray Research (ICRR). This experiment demonstrated that the supposedly massless neutrino must, in fact, have a non-zero rest mass. Once verified, this discovery will force a revision in the Standard Model, which assumes a massless neutrino and may alter our estimates of the total mass of the universe, with implications for understanding its origin and eventual fate.
* Incredibly light synthetic metals with a potential electrical conductivity 50-100 times better than copper per weight are being made from carbon nanotubes doped with metals. First discovered in 1991, nanotubes are a new class of materials formed from graphite-like sheets of carbon rolled into exquisitely small cylinders (one- billionth of a meter).
* Microbial genomics, one of today's most exciting and high profile fields in biology, was initiated by DOE in 1994. Science Magazine also identified microbial genomics as one of the top 10 fields of discovery in 1998. Two of the 1997 "11 hottest papers in biology" were for microbial genomic sequences funded by SC. For example, SC research on "Conan the Bacterium" - D. radiodurans R1, has shown extreme resistance to genotoxic chemicals, oxidative damage, high levels of ionizing and UV radiation, and desiccation. The ability to survive such extreme environments is attributed in part to a unique DNA repair system in combination with its chromosome copy number and structure. The remarkable capabilities of this microbe may enable scientists to engineer a form of D. Radiodurans that can help us clean up some of our most troublesome waste problems.
* The Human Genome Program was initiated by the Department of Energy (DOE) in 1986 to map and determine the complete DNA sequence of the human genome. A Memorandum of Understanding was established with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in 1988 to coordinate the U.S. Genome Project. The latest joint five-year plan was published in Science Magazine in October 1998. This plan calls for determining the complete sequence of the human genome by the year 2003, two years ahead of the original target date. Recent successes include identifying the gene for kidney disease. * SC has renewed our commitment to forging more effective partnerships that leverage our research investments and connect us more closely with other federal science programs and the direct beneficiaries of our research. We are fostering new kinds of partnerships among our national laboratory, university and industry based researchers to maximize the effectiveness and impact of research activities.


*******************

Article 750

- I am also increasingly concerned about other forms of international criminal activity, for instance 'cyber-criminals' who attempt to exploit the electronic underpinnings of the global financial, commercial, and capital market systems, and nationally-based 'mafia' groups who seek to undermine legitimate governments in states like Russia and Nigeria. Globally, criminal cartels are becoming more sophisticated at exploiting technology, developing or taking control of legitimate commercial activities, and seeking to. directly influence - through infiltration, manipulation, and bribery - local, state, and national governments, legitimate transnational organizations, and businesses. Increased cooperation between independent criminal elements, including terrorist organizations, is likely. Greater interaction between the US military and other federal agencies will be required to counter this growing threat.
Technology development and proliferation. I am very concerned about weapons of mass destruction and missile proliferation and will address these issues separately. However, there are other critical 'enabling' technologies - including numerous 'new sciences' - that can dramatically affect the nature and capabilities of future threats. Some examples include:
- Nanotechnology ... packaging advanced capabilities and functions in very small and lightweight form using micro and sub-micro manufacturing and machining technology (in particular, building weapons systems that are smaller, faster, lighter, yet more destructive).
- Biotechnologies ... particularly the bioengineering of organisms created for very specific purposes (e.g. biological agents that will infect and incapacitate a specific group of people).
- Information-related technologies ... including advanced encryption, high volume data handling, complex computational capability, and offensive and defensive information warfare capabilities.


*******************

Article 751

Emerging democracies and economically strapped states will be particularly susceptible. The drug trade will continue to produce tensions between and among drug producing, transport, and user nations. - I am also increasingly concerned about other forms of international criminal activity, for instance 'cyber-criminals' who attempt to exploit the electronic underpinnings of the global financial, commercial, and capital market systems, and nationally-based 'mafia' groups who seek to undermine legitimate governments in states like Russia and Nigeria. Globally, criminal cartels are becoming more sophisticated at exploiting technology, developing or taking control of legitimate commercial activities, and seeking to directly influence - through infiltration, manipulation, and bribery - local, state, and national governments, legitimate transnational organizations, and businesses. Increased cooperation between independent criminal elements, including terrorist organizations, is likely. Greater interaction between the US military and other federal agencies will be required to counter this growing threat. Technology development and proliferation. I am very concerned about weapons of mass destruction and missile proliferation and will address these issues separately. However, there are other critical 'enabling' technologies - including numerous 'new sciences' - that can dramatically affect the nature land capabilities of future threats. Some examples include: - Nanotechnology ... packaging advanced capabilities and functions in very small and lightweight form using micro and sub- micro manufacturing and machining technology (in particular, building weapons systems that are smaller, faster, lighter, yet more destructive). - Biotechnologies ... particularly the bioengineering of organisms created for very specific purposes (e.g. biological agents that will infect and incapacitate a specific group of people). - Information-related technologies ... including advanced encryption, high volume data handling, complex computational capability, and offensive and defensive information warfare capabilities. Critical Uncertainties. There are numerous issues - to include the great transitions underway in Russia and China, the future of the Korean peninsula, the prospects for lasting peace in the Middle East, the Balkans, and sub-Sahara Africa, evolving global and regional security structures and institutions, and an array of upcoming leadership changes - whose outcome will dramatically impact the global security situation. Uncertainty about these and other key issues brings great stress to the international order. I

*******************

Article 752

Dr. Lane testified that NSFs request of $3.73 billion represents and investment in keeping U.S. science and engineering at the leading edge of learning and discovery. Much of his testimony focused on NSFs KDI theme. The KDI initiative is designed to turn the flood of information into a "wellspring of discovery, learning and progress." He stressed that this initiative goes beyond hardware to include the workings of the brain, how we learn and the nature of intelligent behavior (i.e., research into the "neck-top computer"). Dr. Lane testified that another aspect of KDI is NSFs support of faster experimental computer and communications networks that will link researchers and educators. He also pointed to NSFs work in support of nanoscale science that has great potential. He credited much of our advances in this area to the biosciences (through work on DNA), noting how nanoscale science is a good example of the integration of the physical and biological sciences. It is these crosscutting aspects of the KDI and NSFs other two themes Life and Earths Environments and Educating for the Future that will provide the foundation for NSFs investment strategy. He also emphasized the Foundations continued to merit-based investments in learning and discovery that adhere to the highest standards of peer review. Dr. Lane closed by saying that the proposed budget is in keeping with the wealth of opportunity that science and engineering afford the nation and will help position America to retain its world leadership in the information-driven economy of the 21st century.
 
4.2(j) External Regulation Of DOE Labs: Status Of OSHA And NRC Pilot Programs


*******************

Article 753

MS. WHELAN: I am Patti Whelan. I am a clinical social worker at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City. I am the consumer representative to the panel and a non-voting member.

DR. STERNICK: Ned Sternick, Vice President of Clinical Affairs at NOMOS Corporation outside of Pittsburgh. I am the industry representative to the panel and a non-voting member.

DR. GRIEM: I am Melvin Griem, Emeritus Professor, University of Chicago, a radiologist and recently President of Great Lakes Nanotechnology, a microscopic imaging firm. I am a voting member.

DR. TOLEDANO: I am Alicia Toledano, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics at the University of Chicago. My specialty is evaluating diagnostic technologies. I am a consultant to the panel with voting status.

DR. MALCOLM: I am Arnold Malcolm, a radiation oncologist, Medical Director of Provident St. Joseph Medical Center, Burbank, California. Voting member. FDA Introductory Remarks

MR. DOYLE: The following announcement addresses conflict of interest issues associated with this meeting and is made a part of the record to preclude even the appearance of any impropriety.


*******************

Article 754

MS. WHELAN: I am Patty Whelan. I a clinical social worker at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City. I am the consumer representative to the panel and a non-voting member.

DR. STERNICK: I am Ed Sternick, Vice President of Clinical Affairs at NOMOS Corporation out of Pittsburgh. I am the industry representative to the panel and a non-voting member.

DR. GRIEM: I am Melvin L Griem. I am Emeritus Professor at the University of Chicago. I am a radiologist, and I am now President of Great Lakes Nanotechnology, Inc., dealing with atomic force microscopy, something new.

DR. TOLEDANO: I am Alicia Toledano, Assistant Professor at the University of Chicago. I am a biostatistician. My specialty is evaluation of diagnostic technologies.

DR. MALCOLM: I am Arnold Malcolm, Medical Director of Radiation Oncology, Provident St. Joseph Medical Center, Burbank, California. I am a voting member of the panel.

DR. GARRA: I am Brian Garra. I am Professor of Radiology and Vice Chairman of the Department of Radiology at the University of Vermont. I am a voting member of the panel.


*******************

Article 755

The Department requested no funds for the Cooperative DoD/VA Medical Research program. The Committee recommends $11,000,000.

advanced electronics technologies

The Department requested $244,737,000 for Advanced Electronics Technologies. The Committee recommends $264,537,000, an increase of $19,800,000. Of this amount, the Committee recommends an increase of $9,500,000 only for cryogenic electronics, an increase of $7,000,000 only to continue development of laser plasma x-ray source technology to exploit the use of these devices for future aircraft systems and other defense applications and an increase of $3,300,000 only for nanotechnology and crystalline control arrays. In addition, the Committee recommends from within available funds, $4,000,000 only for the development of microdevice manufacturing processes including the immediate evaluation and acquisition of extremely small, very light, energy efficient, high speed processing state of the art gas chromatography (GC) based detectors using high aspect ratio microstructure (HARM) machining techniques made possible by X-ray lithography. These GC devices shall be used for detection of chemical agents and other battlefield and anti-terrorism purposes. The Committee directs the Department to implement these processes and development and provide this funding only through the prototyping and production of strategic defense related technologies at the Center for Advanced Microstructures and Devices.

Nanotechnology Research

The Committee recommends $3,300,000 only to support nanotechnology research for the development of nanoscale and mesoscale materials for novel chemical sensing, novel optical switching, and optical limiting materials, and materials for thin 2-D display devices for Department of Defense applications as chemical sensors for environmentally hazardous species such as heavy metals and chemical warfare agents. The major approach to be used involves crystalline colloidal self assembly for preparing periodic materials that can be polymerized and further processed for use as diffracting materials.

advanced concept technology demonstration


*******************

Article 756

The Georgia Institute of Technology (GIT), including the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI), received approximately $84 million in Department of Defense grants and contracts in 1997. These funds involve a full range of activity from basic research through developmental, test and evaluation work. Some of the highlights of this research in the basic science and engineering disciplines at Georgia Tech include the following projects: 1. Molecular Design Institute. The Office of Naval Research (ONR) supports molecular synthesis and processing research, making it possible to tailor new materials, atom by atom, to achieve a desired set of properties. This molecular manipulation at the atomic level into material nanostructures is fundamental research important for meeting future Navy requirements for sophisticated surface and underwater vessels, weapons and equipment. Georgia Tech is one of two centers in the country currently involved in this advanced research. 2. Acousto-Electromagnetic Sensor for Locating Land Mines. The Army Research Office currently sponsors basic research at Georgia Tech in the area of land mine detection. The objective of this project is to investigate new, innovative techniques for detecting and locating both metallic and non-metallic land mines. Presently, non-metallic land mines are almost impossible to detect with existing systems. Georgia Tech electrical engineering researchers are now investigating a technique that uses both acoustic and electromagnetic waves in a synergistic manner to detect these mines. Land mine detection is a high priority for DOD and this work should lead to new methodologies for protecting U.S. troops from these deadly devices. 3. Intelligent Turbine Engines. 

*******************

Article 757

By using the facilities connected through the network, scientists and engineers are able to create, design and manipulate ordinary objects like ceramics or metals one molecule or even one atom at a time. This is research and engineering at incredibly small scales - a nanometer- often the measure used in this research - is one billionth of a meter, about the length of 3 or 4 atoms. If I were asked for an area of science and engineering that will most likely produce the breakthroughs of tomorrow, I would point to nanoscale science and engineering, often called simply "nanotechnology". The general idea of nanotechnology is not new - it has been studied since Nobel laureate Richard Feynman outlined the idea in a speech in 1959 - but only recently have scientists been able glimpse Feynman's vision by creating rudimentary nanostructures.
NSF support over the years has allowed nanoscale science and engineering to go from the realm of science fiction to science fact. One of the most notable NSFsupported discoveries was the Nobel Prize winning discovery by Richard Smalley and Robert Curl at Rice University and Harry Kroto of Sussex University in England of a hollow form of carbon known as Buckyballs. Subsequent research has shown that a related class of molecules - the fullerenes - can form "nanotubes" only a few atoms in diameter3 that could be the basis for a stunning array of new environmentally friendly, carbon based materials never known before.
The possibilities of nanotechnology are endless. Entirely new classes of incredibly strong, extremely light and environmentally benign materials could be created. Other possibilities include:
- New generations of metals and ceramics several times harder and more ductile that today. This could enable the creation of inexpensive and readily available superconductive materials; - medical implants that are constructed to be accepted by the body; and - medical probes so small that they won't damage the tissue.
Some nanoscale scientists and engineers even envision nanomanufactured objects that could change their properties automatically or repair themselves. When you think about it, this idea is not so outlandish - DNA molecules in our own bodies can replicate themselves with incredibly small rates of error. Much of the inspiration for nanoscale scientists and engineers comes from the biosciences and bioengineering - making nanoscale science a perfect example of the integration of the physical sciences and biosciences.
The Bottom Line
Through these and other investments described in our budget request, NSF's portfolio sets the stage for a 21st Century research and education enterprise that continues to lead and shape the information revolution, addresses key national priorities in such areas as the environment and nanotechnology, improves teaching and learning at all levels of education, and commits itself to reaching out and advancing public understanding of science and technology. Guiding all of these activities is the Foundation's longstanding commitment to merit-based investments in learning and discovery that adhere to the highest standards of excellence.


*******************

Article 758

Later this year, building on a series of hearings organized by its Committee on Education and Human Resources, the Board will issue a policy report that clarifies the role of the science and engineering communities, especially higher education, in rallying as well as supporting schools, teachers, students, and families to the literacy and numeracy demands that all citizens now face. The next generation of workers, researchers, and leaders must have the necessary science, mathematics, technology, and problem-solving skills to keep the United States a world leader in the 21 st century.
This proposed NSF budget would help keep America at the cutting edge of science. It would enable new discovery and educate the world's best scientists and engineers -- setting the stage for the next millennium. It is good for the country, good for science, and good for economic growth. But most important, it is also good for the American people.
Strong support for NSF is clearly a keystone of our investment in the future. And strong support for the research performed or supported by other Federal agencies, in connection with their missions, is vital as well. Just taking the example of nanoscale science and engineering mentioned by Neal Lane demonstrates that this cutting-edge research supported by NSF has applications for the R&D mission of many agencies, including DOD, NIH, DOE, and NASA.
The Board is very concerned about the funding of science and engineering research in the future. Indeed, we concluded our Working Paper on Government Funding of Scientific Research, mentioned previously, by staling that changed global and domestic circumstances "...do not reduce the desirability of continued government funding of scientific research... A nation requires a robust high-tech industry, a scientific talent base, and a vigorous research activity to prosper over the long term."



*******************

Article 759

Later this year, building on a series of hearings organized by its Committee on Education and Human Resources, the Board will issue a policy report that clarifies the role of the science and engineering communities, especially higher education, in rallying as well as supporting schools, teachers, students, and families to the literacy and numeracy demands that all citizens now face. The next generation of workers, researchers, and leaders must have the necessary science, mathematics, technology, and problem- solving skills to keep the United States a world leader in the 21st century. This proposed NSF budget would help keep America at the cutting edge of science. It would enable new discovery and educate the world's best scientists and engineers -- setting the stage for the next millennium. It is good for the country, good for science, and good for economic growth. But most important, it is also good for the American people. Strong support for NSF is clearly a keystone of our investment in the future. And strong support for the research performed or supported by other Federal agencies, in connection with their missions, is vital as well. Just taking the example of nanoscale science and engineering mentioned by Neal Lane demonstrates that this cutting-edge research supported by NSF has applications for the R&D mission of many agencies, including DOD, NIH, DOE, and NASA. The Board is very concerned about the funding of science and engineering research in the future. Indeed, we concluded our Working Paper on Government Funding of Scientific Research, mentioned previously, by stating that changed global and domestic circumstances "...do not reduce the desirability of continued government funding of scientific research ... A nation requires a robust high-tech industry, a scientific talent base, and a vigorous research activity to prosper over the long term." We are concerned as well for the possible fate of many research programs in other Federal agencies that complement those of NSF but which are currently being challenged. We urge the Congress, when considering funding for Federal agencies that have science, engineering, and education programs, to do so with explicit regard for the relationships among those programs across the government and with industrial research and development. It is important to take actions, in the national interest, that fortify the vitality of U.S. science and engineering. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would be glad to take any questions.



*******************

Article 760

And while the Nanofabrication Users Network is an exciting example of how KDI can transform discovery, the actual research conducted over the network is probably even more exciting. By using the facilities connected through the network, scientists and engineers are able to create, design and manipulate ordinary objects like ceramics or metals one molecule or even one atom at a time. This is research and engineering at incredibly small scales - a nanometer - often the measure used in this research - is one billionth of a meter, about the length of 3 or 4 atoms. If I were asked for an area of science and engineering that will most likely produce the breakthroughs of tomorrow, I would point to nanoscale science and engineering, often called simply "nanotechnology". The general idea of nanotechnology is not new - it has been studied since Nobel laureate Richard Feynman outlined the idea in a speech in 1959 - but only recently have scientists been able glimpse Feynman's vision by creating rudimentary nanostructures. NSF support over the years has allowed nanoscale science and engineering to go from the realm of science fiction to science fact. One of the most notable NSF-supported discoveries was the Nobel Prize winning discovery by Richard Smalley and Robert Curl at Rice University and Harry Kroto of Sussex University in England of a hollow form of carbon known as Buckyballs. Subsequent research has shown that a related class of molecules - the fullerenes - can form "nanotubes" only a few atoms in diameter 3 that could be the basis for a stunning array of new environmentally friendly, carbon based materials never known before. 3 Next Electronics Breakthrough: Power-Packed Carbon Atoms, The New York Times February 17, 1998, Malcolm W. Browne The possibilities of nanotechnology are endless. Entirely new classes of incredibly strong, extremely light and environmentally benign materials could be created. Other possibilities include: - New generations of metals and ceramics several times harder and more ductile that today. This could enable the creation of inexpensive and readily available superconductive materials; - medical implants that are constructed to be accepted by the body; and - medical probes so small that they won't damage the tissue. Some nanoscale scientists and engineers even envision nanomanufactured objects that could change their properties automatically or repair themselves. When you think about it, this idea is not so outlandish - DNA molecules in our own bodies can replicate themselves with incredibly small rates of error. Much of the inspiration for nanoscale scientists and engineers comes from the biosciences and bioengineering - making nanoscale science a perfect example of the integration of the physical sciences and biosciences. The Bottom Line Through these and other investments described in our budget request, NSF's portfolio sets the stage for a 21st Century research and education enterprise that continues to lead and shape the information revolution, addresses key national priorities in such areas as the environment and nanotechnology, improves teaching and learning at all levels of education, and commits itself to reaching out and advancing public understanding of science and technology. Guiding all of these activities is the Foundation's longstanding commitment to merit-based investments in learning and discovery that adhere to the highest standards of excellence. A wealth of evidence testifies to the impressive returns generated by these investments. One ground-breaking study funded by NSF and published in the Fall 1997 issue of the journal Research Policy found a rapidly growing linkage between industrial innovation and scientific research. The study examined patents in key areas of industrial technology, including biomedicine, chemistry, and electrical components.

*******************

Article 761

Moreover, reducing global CO2 emissions should be a gradual, three-stage process, according to PNNLs Edmonds, Dooley, and Wise. During the next twenty-five years (Stage 1), the United States should commit resources to carbon capture and sequestration as well as the development and spread of new energy technologies such as hydrogen transformation from natural gas, advanced liquefied hydrogen fuel cells, bio- mass, solar photovoltaic, and nanotechnology (the design and building of structures atom-by-atom). Although such technologies are now in their early stages, their development could revolutionize energy production while sharply reducing the cost of stabilizing atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases. Stage II, from 2020-2050, would see the enforcement of an emissions cap; Stage III could see the gradual phaseout of all free-venting of carbon into the atmosphere if the science indicates the need for such a policy. CONCLUSIONS The consensus of these noted scholars is clear. Given the need to increase U.S. economic growth to address challenges such as a growing population, the retirement of the baby boom generation, and a persistent trade deficit, policymakers should weigh carefully the likely negative economic impact of precipitous near-term reductions in U.S. CO2 emissions and energy use. Adopting a thoughtfully timed climate change policy-based on science and improved climate models-would both enhance U.S. and global economic growth and lead to long-term stabilization of carbon concentrations in the atmosphere.



*******************

Article 762

The NSF-supported National Nanofabrication Users Network is a good example of such a distributed network or "virtual center" as some like to describe the arrangement. In the "virtual center" concept, high speed connections allow any researcher - regardless of where he or she may be located - to remotely use the capabilities and instruments of each of the five locations across the country2 that constitute the users network.
And while the Nanofabrication Users Network is an exciting example of how KDI can transform discovery, the actual research conducted over the network is probably even more exciting. By using the facilities connected through the network, scientists and engineers are able to create, design and manipulate ordinary objects like ceramics or metals one molecule or even one atom at a time. This is research and engineering at incredibly small scales - a nanometer - often the measure used in this research - is one billionth of a meter, about the length of 3 or 4 atoms.
If I were asked for an area of science and engineering that will most likely produce the breakthroughs of tomorrow, I would point to nanoscale science and engineering, often called simply "nanotechnology". The general idea of nanotechnology is not new -it has been studied since Nobel laureate Richard Feynman outlined the idea in a speech in 1959 - but only recently have scientists been able glimpse Feynman's vision by creating rudimentary nanostructures.
NSF support over the years has allowed nanoscale science and engineering to go from the realm of science fiction to science fact. One of the most notable NSF supported discoveries was the Nobel Prize winning discovery by Richard Smalley and Robert Curl at Rice University and Harry Kroto of Sussex University in England of a hollow form of carbon known as Buckyballs. Subsequent research has shown that a related class of molecules - the fullerenes - can form "nanotubes" only a few atoms in diameter3 that could be the basis for a stunning array of new environmentally friendly, carbon based materials never known before.
The possibilities of nanotechnology are endless. Entirely new classes of incredibly strong, extremely light and environmentally benign materials could be created. Other possibilities include: - New generations of metals and ceramics several times harder and more ductile that today. This could enable the creation of inexpensive and readily available superconductive materials; - medical implants that are constructed to be accepted by the body; and - medical probes so small that they won't damage the tissue.
Some nanoscale scientists and engineers even envision nanomanufactured objects that could change their properties automatically or repair themselves. When you think about it, this idea is not so outlandish - DNA molecules in our own bodies can replicate themselves with incredibly small rates of error. Much of the inspiration for nanoscale scientists and engineers comes from the biosciences and bioengineering - making nanoscale science a perfect example of the integration of the physical sciences and biosciences.
The Bottom Line
Through these and other investments described in our budget request, NSF's portfolio sets the stage for a 21st Century research and education enterprise that continues to lead and shape the information revolution, addresses key national priorities in such areas as the environment and nanotechnology, improves teaching and learning at all levels of education, and commits itself to reaching out and advancing public understanding of science and technology. Guiding all of these activities is the Foundation's longstanding commitment to merit-based investments in learning and discovery that adhere to the highest standards of excellence.


*******************

Article 763

Strong support for NSF is clearly a keystone of our investment in the future. And strong support for the research performed or supported by other Federal agencies, in connection with their missions, is vital as well. Just taking the example of nanoscale science and engineering mentioned by Neal Lane demonstrates that this cutting-edge research supported by NSF has applications for the R&D mission of many agencies, including DOD, NIH, DOE, and NASA.
The Board is very concerned about the funding of science and engineering research in the future. Indeed, we concluded our Working Paper on Government Funding of Scientific Research, mentioned previously, by stating that changed global and domestic circumstances "...do not reduce the desirability of continued government funding of scientific research...A nation requires a robust high-tech industry, a scientific talent base, and a vigorous research activity to prosper over the long term." We are concerned as well for the possible fate of many research programs in other Federal agencies that complement those of NSF but which are currently being challenged. We urge the Congress, when considering funding for Federal agencies that have science, engineering, and education programs, to do so with explicit regard for the relationships among those programs across the government and with industrial research and development. It is important to take actions, in the national interest, that fortify the vitality of U.S. science and engineering.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would be glad to take any questions.


*******************

Article 764

This proposed NSF budget would help keep America at the cutting edge of science. It would enable new discovery and educate the world's best scientists and engineers -- setting the stage for the next millennium. It is good for the country, good for science, and good for economic growth. But most important, it is also good for the American people. Strong support for NSF is clearly a keystone of our investment in the future. And strong support for the research performed or supported by other Federal agencies, in connection with their missions, is vital as well. Just taking the example of nanoscale science and engineering mentioned by Neal Lane demonstrates that this cutting-edge research supported by NSF has applications for the R&D mission of many agencies, including DOD, NIH, DOE, and NASA. The Board is very concerned about the funding of science and engineering research in the future. Indeed, we concluded our Working Paper on Government Funding of scientific Research, mentioned previously, by stating that changed global and domestic circumstances "...do not reduce the desirability of continued government funding of scientific research ... A nation requires a robust high-tech industry, a scientific talent base, and a vigorous research activity to prosper over the long term." We are concerned as well for the possible fate of many research programs in other Federal agencies that complement those of NSF but which are currently being challenged. We urge the Congress, when considering funding for Federal agencies that have science, engineering, and education programs, to do so with explicit regard for the relationships among those programs across the government and with industrial research and development. It is important to take actions, in the national interest, that fortify the vitality of U.S. science and engineering. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would be glad to take any questions.



*******************

Article 765

This is research and engineering at incredibly small scales - a nanometer - often the measure used in this research - is one billionth of a meter, about the length of 3 or 4 atoms. 2 The five NNUN sites are: Stanford University, UC Santa Barbara, Cornell University, Penn. State, and Howard University. If I were asked for an area of science and engineering that will most likely produce the breakthroughs of tomorrow, I would point to nanoscale science and engineering, often called simply "nanotechnology". The general idea of nanotechnology is not new - it has been studied since Nobel laureate Richard Feynman outlined the idea in a speech in 1959 - but only recently have scientists been able glimpse Feynman's vision by creating rudimentary nanostructures. NSF support over the years has allowed nanoscale science and engineering to go from the realm of science fiction to science fact. One of the most notable NSFsupported discoveries was the Nobel Prize winning discovery by Richard Smalley and Robert Curl at Rice University and Harry Kroto of Sussex University in England of a hollow form of carbon known as Buckyballs. Subsequent research has shown that a related class of molecules - the fullerenes - can form "nanotubes" only a few atoms in diameter 3 that could be the basis for a stunning array of new environmentally friendly, carbon based materials never known before. The possibilities of nanotechnology are endless. Entirely new classes of incredibly strong, extremely light and environmentally benign materials could be created. Other possibilities include: - New generations of metals and ceramics several times harder and more ductile that today. This could enable the creation of inexpensive and readily available superconductive materials; - medical implants that are constructed to be accepted by the body; and - medical probes so small that they won't damage the tissue. Some nanoscale scientists and engineers even envision nanomanufactured objects that could change their properties automatically or repair themselves. When you think about it, this idea is not so outlandish - DNA molecules in our own bodies can replicate themselves with incredibly small rates of error. Much of the inspiration for nanoscale scientists and engineers comes from the biosciences and bioengineering - making nanoscale science a perfect example of the integration of the physical sciences and biosciences. The Bottom Line Through these and other investments described in our budget request, NSF's portfolio sets the stage for a 21st Century research and education enterprise that continues to lead and shape the information revolution, addresses key national priorities in such areas as the environment and nanotechnology, improves teaching and learning at all levels of education, and commits itself to reaching out and advancing public understanding of science and technology. Guiding all of these activities is the Foundation's longstanding commitment to merit-based investments in learning and discovery that adhere to the highest standards of excellence. 3 Next Electronics Breakthrough: Power-Packed Carbon Atoms, The New York Times February 17,1998, Malcolm W. Browne A wealth of evidence testifies to the impressive returns generated by these investments. One ground-breaking study funded by NSF and published in the Fall 1997 issue of the journal Research Policy found a rapidly growing linkage between industrial innovation and scientific research. The study examined patents in key areas of industrial technology, including biomedicine, chemistry, and electrical components. 

*******************

Article 766

I would not want a focus on commercialization to detract from your ability to continue to be the premier sponsor of basic research across the country. Are you comfortable that this activity in NSF is not detracting from your original and most important role?


NARAYANAN: Yes. The answer is yes, and if I could elaborate a little bit. I didn't get a chance to talk in my testimony about other non-commercial areas that we ask our reviewers to evaluate, which include enabling scientific discovery. For example, instrumentations which are developed by the small businesses, advances science in areas you couldn't advance before, things you could see smaller than ever before. They are pushing the frontiers of the atomic force microscope areas, where you couldn't do it before.


So, there are, in fact, if you will, the charter of NSF is a discovery (ph) as you correctly point out, is a very important element and small businesses are a very key role in providing that instrumentation, that impetus, to make the discovery possible. And I think that's one of the things we look at.


One of the other things we also ask for is in a much broader context, what we say if society will benefit, which may be, you know, case of building some lenses for astronomical observatory, and probably when it doesn't, astronomy labs are going to benefit, it still is very important for NSF because in our astronomy program, we want to make sure we've got the instrumentations once again to be able to see things which we couldn't see before.



*******************

Article 767

BASIC ENGINEERING KNOWLEDGE
Historically the most important and unique contribution of NSF to mechanical engineering has been its support of disciplines such as fluid mechanics, structural mechanics, and mechanics of materials. The Task force is pleased to see continuing support of this type, now focused more on cross-disciplinary activities. Three examples are noteworthy:
(a) Nanotechnology - The $3.0M increase in support of nanoscale properties, structures and devices is commended by the Task Force because of its potential impact on engineered systems of the future. For example, a broad range of "smart materials" applications would be enabled through combining embedded nanoscale sensors and state-of-the- art feedback control methods. We are only on the threshold of understanding how sensors at such small scales function, however.(b) Biology-Based-Technologies - A broad range of new materials and sensors may be available by exploiting the intersection of Biology and Engineering, and for this reason the Task Force endorses the $3.0M increase in FY 99 funding over the FY 98 level in this area. Like nanotechnology, biosensors and biomaterials of practical use to mechanical engineers are in most cases still years away, with difficult research challenges to be resolved.
(c) Long Term Deterioration of Materials The influence of long term material deterioration on the performance of engineered structures and systems ranging from bridges to automobiles to airplanes is a critical problem for the present and the future. For this reason the Task Force endorses the $3.0M support for this topic in the FY 99 Civil and Mechanical Systems budget. A range of difficult research challenges exists, such as how to accurately model aging structures. Such a predictive capability has enormous economic and societal impact (aging aircraft and aging infrastructure being but two examples.)


*******************

Article 768

In our view such budget increases that foster mechanical engineering excellence are a critical investment in our future economic viability as a country. In the final analysis the development of efficient design and manufacturing methodologies for products of all types is essential for global economic competitiveness. The Task Force has the following specific observations about the proposed FY 99 budget for basic engineering knowledge, complex engineering processes, and engineering education. BASIC ENGINEERING KNOWLEDGE Historically the most important and unique contribution of NSF to mechanical engineering has been its support of disciplines such as fluid mechanics, structural mechanics, and mechanics of materials. The Task force is pleased to see continuing support of this type, now focused more on cross-disciplinary activities. Three examples are noteworthy: (a) Nanotechnology - The $3.OM increase in support of nanoscale properties, structures and devices is commended by the Task Force because of its potential impact on engineered systems of the future. For example, a broad range of "smart materials" applications would be enabled through combining embedded nanoscale sensors and state-of-the-art feedback control methods. We are only on the threshold of understanding how sensors at such small scales function, however. (b) Biology-Based-Technologies - A broad range of new materials and sensors may be available by exploiting the intersection of Biology and Engineering, and for this reason the Task Force endorses the $3.0M increase in FY 99 funding over the FY 98 level in this area. Like nanotechnology, biosensors and biomaterials of practical use to mechanical engineers are in most cases still years away, with difficult research challenges to be resolved. (c) Long Term Deterioration of Materials - The influence of long term material deterioration on the performance of engineered structures and systems ranging from bridges to automobiles to airplanes is a critical problem for the present and the future. For this reason the Task Force endorses the $3.OM support for this topic in the FY 99 Civil and Mechanical Systems budget. 

*******************

Article 769

This proposed NSF budget would help keep America at the cutting edge of science. It would enable new discovery and educate the world's best scientists and engineers -- setting the stage for the next millennium. It is good for the country, good for science, and good for economic growth. But most important, it is also good for the American people.Strong support for NSF is clearly a keystone of our investment in the future. And strong support for the research performed or supported by other Federal agencies, in connection with their missions, is vital as well. Just taking the example of nanoscale science and engineering mentioned by Neal Lane demonstrates that this cutting-edge research supported by NSF has applications for the R&D mission of many agencies, including DOD, NIH, DOE, and NASA.
The Board is very concerned about the funding of science and engineering research in the future. Indeed, we concluded our Working Paper on Government Funding of Scientific Research, mentioned previously, by stating that changed global and domestic circumstances "...do not reduce the desirability of continued government funding of scientific research...A nation requires a robust high-tech industry, a scientific talent base, and a vigorous research activity to prosper over the long term."
We are concerned as well for the possible fate of many research programs in other Federal agencies that complement those of NSF but which are currently being challenged. We urge the Congress, when considering funding for Federal agencies that have science, engineering, and education programs, to do so with explicit regard for the relationships among those programs across the government and with industrial research and development. It is important to take actions, in the national interest, that fortify the vitality of U.S. science and engineering.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would be glad to take any questions.
END


*******************

Article 770

By using the facilities connected through the network, scientists and engineers are able to create, design and manipulate ordinary objects like ceramics or metals one molecule or even one atom at a time. This is research and engineering at incredibly small scales - a nanometer - often the measure used in this research - is one billionth of a meter, about the length of 3 or 4 atoms. If I were asked for an area of science and engineering that will most likely produce the breakthroughs of tomorrow, I would point to nanoscale science and engineering, often called simply "nanotechnology". The general idea of nanotechnology is not new- it has been studied since Nobel laureate Richard Feynman outlined the idea in a speech in 1959 - but only recently have scientists been able glimpse Feynman's vision by creating rudimentary nanostructures.
NSF support over the years has allowed nanoscale science and engineering to go from the realm of science fiction to science fact. One of the most notable NSF supported discoveries was the Nobel Prize winning discovery by Richard Smalley and Robert Curl at Rice University and Harry Kroto of Sussex University in England of a hollow form of carbon known as Buckyballs. Subsequent research has shown that a related class of molecules - the fullerenes - can form "nanotubes" only a few atoms in diameter3 that could be the basis for a stunning array of new environmentally friendly, carbon based materials never known before.
The possibilities of nanotechnology are endless. Entirely new classes of incredibly strong, extremely light and environmentally benign materials could be created. Other possibilities include:
- New generations of metals and ceramics several times harder and more ductile that today. This could enable the creation of inexpensive and readily available superconductive materials; - medical implants that are constructed to be accepted by the body; and - medical probes so small that they won't damage the tissue.
Some nanoscale scientists and engineers even envision nanomanufactured objects that could change their properties automatically or repair themselves. When you think about it, this idea is not so outlandish - DNA molecules in our own bodies can replicate themselves with incredibly small rates of error. Much of the inspiration for nanoscale scientists and engineers comes from the biosciences and bioengineering - making nanoscale science a perfect example of the integration of the physical sciences and biosciences.
The Bottom Line Through these and other investments described in our budget request, NSF's portfolio sets the stage for a 21st Century research and education enterprise that continues to lead and shape the information revolution, addresses key national priorities in such areas as the environment and nanotechnology, improves teaching and learning at all levels of education, and commits itself to reaching out and advancing public understanding of science and technology. Guiding all of these activities is the Foundation's longstanding commitment to merit-based investments in learning and discovery that adhere to the highest standards of excellence.


*******************

Article 771

So, you can actually now make materials and engineered devices with new properties and promise for applications, and you can do it from wherever you are around the country.
And, while the virtual center concept is an exciting example of how KDI can transform discovery, the actual research conducted over the Nanofabrication Network is probably even more exciting. By using interconnected facilities, scientists and engineers are able to create, and design, and manipulate ordinary objects like ceramics or metals one molecule, or even one atom, at a time. The prefix nano, of course, stands for 10 to the minus nine, or one-billionth of the meter. This is the dimension of the atomic molecular world, and this is the technology for the 21st century.
The general idea of nanotechnology is not new. It's been around since Nobel laureate Richard Feinman outlined the idea in a speech in 1959. But, only recently have scientists been able to glimpse Feinman's vision by actually creating rudimentary nanostructures.

NSF support over the years has allowed nanoscale science and engineering to go from the realm of science fiction to science fact.
One of the most notable NSF supported discoveries was the Nobel Prize winning discovery by Richard Smalling (sp) and Robert Curl of Rice University, and Harry Croto (sp) of Sussex University in England, of the hollow form of carbon known as a buckeyball. Subsequent research has uncovered a whole range, a whole class of molecules ranging from carbon nanotubes, or nanowires, only a few atoms in diameter that could be the basis for a stunning array of new environmentally friendly carbon based materials never known before. And, in fact, Mr. Chairman, depending on how you wrap these sheets of carbon, how tightly you wrap them, at one angle you can get semiconducting materials. You can get super conducting materials with nothing more than carbon in these long filaments.
Some scientists even envision objects that could change their properties automatically, or re-pick themselves. When you think about it, the idea is not so outlandish. DNA, in fact, does that in our own bodies. DNA can replicate itself with incredibly small rates of error. Much of the inspiration for nanoscale techscience and engineering comes from the biosciences and bioengineering making nanoscale science an ideal example of the integration of the physical sciences, and the biosciences, and engineering.
These connections across seemingly unrelated areas of science and engineering highlight a central feature of NSF's FY '99 request. Three integrating themes, KDI, which I've selected out with a few examples today, life and Earth's environment, and educating for the future. And, of course, we'll be happy to talk much more about any of these themes today. These three themes provide a framework for the foundation's investment strategy. These are each discussed in greater detail in my written statement.
In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, let me emphasize that the entire NSF investment portfolio sets the stage for a 21st century research and education enterprise that continues to lead and shape the information revolution that addresses key national priorities in such areas as health, the environment, and nanotechnology, that improves teaching and learning at all levels of education, and it commits itself to reaching out and advancing public understanding of science and technology. Guiding all of these activities is the foundation's long standing commitment to merit based investments in learning and discovery that adhere to the highest standards of excellence.


*******************

Article 772

This proposed NSF budget would help keep America at the cutting edge of science. It would enable new discovery and educate the world's best scientists and engineers -- setting the stage for the next millennium. It is good for the country, good for science, and good for economic growth. But most important, it is also good for the American people. Strong support for NSF is clearly a keystone of our investment in the future. And strong support for the research performed or supported by other Federal agencies, in connection with their missions, is vital as well. Just taking the example of nanoscale science and engineering mentioned by Neal Lane demonstrates that this cutting-edge research supported by NSF has applications for the R&D mission of many agencies, including DOD, NIH, DOE, and NASA. The Board is very concerned about the funding of science and engineering research in the future. Indeed, we concluded our Working Paper on Government Funding of Scientific Research, mentioned previously, by stating that changed global and domestic circumstances "...do not reduce the desirability of continued government funding of scientific research ... A nation requires a robust high-tech industry, a scientific talent base, and a vigorous research activity to prosper over the long term." We are concerned as well for the possible fate of many research programs in other Federal agencies that complement those of NSF but which are currently being challenged. We urge the Congress, when considering funding for Federal agencies that have science, engineering, and education programs, to do so with explicit regard for the relationships among those programs across the government and with industrial research and development. It is important to take actions, in the national interest, that fortify the vitality of U.S. science and engineering. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would be glad to take any questions.


*******************

Article 773

The five NNUN sites are: Stanford University, UC Santa Barbara, Cornell University, Penn. State, and Howard University. And while the Nanofabrication Users Network is an exciting example of how KDI can transform discovery, the actual research conducted over the network is probably even more exciting. By using the facilities connected through the network, scientists and engineers are able to create, design and manipulate ordinary objects like ceramics or metals one molecule or even one atom at a time. This is research and engineering at incredibly small scales - a nanometer - often the measure used in this research - is one billionth of a meter, about the length of 3 or 4 atoms. If I were asked for an area of science and engineering that will most likely produce the breakthroughs of tomorrow, I would point to nanoscale science and engineering, often called simply "nanotechnology". The general idea of nanotechnology is not new - it has been studied since Nobel laureate Richard Feynman outlined the idea in a speech in 1959 - but only recently have scientists been able glimpse Feynman's vision by creating rudimentary nanostructures. NSF support over the years has allowed nanoscale science and engineering to go from the realm of science fiction to science fact. One of the most notable NSF-supported discoveries was the Nobel Prize winning discovery by Richard Smalley and Robert Curl at Rice University and Harry Kroto of Sussex University in England of a hollow form of carbon known as Buckyballs. Subsequent research has shown that a related class of molecules - the fullerenes - can form "nanotubes" only a few atoms in diameter 3 that could be the basis for a stunning array of new environmentally friendly, carbon based materials never known before. 3 Next Electronics Breakthrough: Power-Packed Carbon Atoms, The New York Times February 17, 1998, Malcolm W. Browne The possibilities of nanotechnology are endless. Entirely new classes of incredibly strong, extremely light and environmentally benign materials could be created. Other possibilities include: - New generations of metals and ceramics several times harder and more ductile that today. This could enable the creation of inexpensive and readily available superconductive materials; - medical implants that are constructed to be accepted by the body; and - medical probes so small that they won't damage the tissue. Some nanoscale scientists and engineers even envision nanomanufactured objects that could change their properties automatically or repair themselves. When you think about it, this idea is not so outlandish - DNA molecules in our own bodies can replicate themselves with incredibly small rates of error. Much of the inspiration for nanoscale scientists and engineers comes from the biosciences and bioengineering - making nanoscale science a perfect example of the integration of the physical sciences and biosciences. The Bottom Line Through these and other investments described in our budget request, NSF's portfolio sets the stage for a 21st Century research and education enterprise that continues to lead and shape the information revolution, addresses key national priorities in such areas as the environment and nanotechnology, improves teaching and learning at all levels of education, and commits itself to reaching out and advancing public understanding of science and technology. Guiding all of these activities is the Foundation's longstanding commitment to merit-based investments in learning and discovery that adhere to the highest standards of excellence. A wealth of evidence testifies to the impressive returns generated by these investments. One ground-breaking study funded by NSF and published in the Fall 1997 issue of the journal Research Policy found a rapidly growing linkage between industrial innovation and scientific research. The study examined patents in key areas of industrial technology, including biomedicine, chemistry, and electrical components. It found that nearly three-fourths of the research papers cited by U.S. industry patents are what the study termed "public science" - papers authored at universities, government laboratories, and other public and non-profit centers.

*******************

Article 774

Two examples may help to illustrate this point:
o Recently an exciting announcement was made about the use of carbon nanostructures to store large volumes of hydrogen fuel. The research to develop these structures was appropriately sponsored by government funding. Now that the concept has been demonstrated, development of commercial storage systems exploiting tie breakthrough will almost certainly be accompl uoing with private capital.
o Basic research on ov cirterials evidencing superconducting properties at high temperature will definitely require government support (altiness some mfjor corporate research labs are also active inIthis field). Once such materials have been identified, the development of commercial devices to exploit them will likeved largely s e for me me present andnment support.
Theret line brighmanifedthat can be drawn between energy R&D activities that merit government funding and those which will be supported by equity capital chasing market opportunity. But it is clear that utility restructuring will have the effecf of pushing the line back much further toward the basic research end of the spectrum.
Thank you for the opportunity to present these observations to the Subcommittee.
END



*******************

Article 775

If the nation is to maintain a position of global leadership in the push toward a truly sustainable energy system-a position now being strongly challenged by Japan and the European Community - we must continue to support, at an aggressive level, both pure and applied research on advanced energy technologies, particularly in the renewables and hydrogen fuel areas. Private equity investors will rapidly exploit breakthroughs that appear commercially promising given the emergence of competitive utility markets, but they will not likely fund the basic and applied research that leads to those breakthroughs. That is properly government's role. Two examples may help to illustrate this point: * Recently an exciting announcement was made about the use of carbon nanostructures to store large volumes of hydrogen fuel. The research to develop these structures was appropriately sponsored by government funding. Now that the concept has been demonstrated, development of commercial storage systems exploiting the breakthrough will almost certainly be accomplished with private capital. * Basic research on new materials evidencing superconducting properties at high temperature will definitely require government support (although some major corporate research labs are also active in this field). Once such materials have been identified, the development of commercial devices to exploit them will likely be achieved largely without government support. There is no bright line that can be drawn between energy R&D activities that merit government funding and those which will be supported by equity capital chasing market opportunity. But it is clear that utility restructuring will have the effect of pushing the line back much further toward the basic research end of the spectrum. Thank you for the opportunity to present these observations to the Subcommittee.


*******************

Article 776

You can see that even in terms of kinetics, we clearly can distinguish between different situations in respect to solid material, which is not dissolved. These are glass particles.

[Slide.]

This is a special gift to you. I got this the day before yesterday on my desk. What is it? A completely different question. We investigated the fate of titanium dioxide nanoparticles, and wanted to know do they enter into the skin; if yes, where, or don't they, and how can you prove it?

For this purpose we looked into different brands and different coating of titanium dioxide. In essence, we expected to find no difference between the different kind of coating. We found it, different coated titanium dioxide behaves different in respect to the distribution within the horny layer.

[Slide.]

So, in other words, again, the technique is extremely sensitive even in respect to compounds and to material which has the same particle size, but which has different, slightly different physical/chemical properties, the one being coated with magnesium stearate and the other one being coated with aluminum oxide, and we see a clear-cut difference between these situations.



*******************

Article 777

These acoustic imagers will be able to perform real-time imaging of targets such as sea mines, even in cluttered environments and limited visibility. We are focusing on making imagers that require very limited power so that they can be operated using battery power, are compact, lightweight, and stealthy. In FY 1999, we will fabricate arrays of micromachined ultrasonic transducers and integrated read-out electronics using two basic approaches: focal plane imaging (analogous to infrared staring arrays) and digital beamforming (similar to medical ultrasound imaging, but in two dimensions and in a much more compact fashion). In FY 2000, we will fully characterize the capability of these cameras in underwater environments.
The Mesoscale Machines effort is just starting this year, Mesoscale, or mesoscopic, machines are defined as those machines which straddle the size-range between microelectromechanical systems devices and conventional machines (i.e., machines in the size range between a sugar cube and a human fist). We are supporting investigators looking at mesoscoptems, and fabrication techniques. All will demonstrate the advantages offered by this unique size-range and then design and build a mesoscale system. The pumps will be usgure-of-merit for the pumps, defined as pumping rate, power, and size, is up to 50 times better than that ofconnect these smaller machines in both series and parallel. The mesoscale cooling unit has promise for a 60 p PAGE 50 03/12/98 the smallest normal-scale coolers. This type of low-weight, high- efficiency coolnstrate the initial feasibility and performance of their prototype mesoscale machines.
Living biological sms program, we are attempting to mimic, control and influence these capabilities and capture them for Defense applications, such as sensing, reporting and delivering couand are more sensitive than any mechanical systehat mimic each of these biological systems, a discipline known as "biomimetics." We see applications in inte 1999 plans include defining principles of single and multi-leg walking and climbing, investigating the responsiveness of insect learning to chemical targets of interestion, examining chemical control parameters to influence insect movements, and developing neurotechnology har999 has given you a better understanding of our activities and investment strategies for the future. DARPA ipport the key pillars of Joint Vision 2010, while also investing in the broad classes of enabling technologierd of successful innovations as we enter into our fifth decade of maintaining technological superiority over potential adversaries.


*******************

Article 778

The energy cycle of all biological organisms involves the central molecule, ATP. The energy captured from photosynthesis or released from respiration is converted into ATP where it is used for maintenance of cells, synthesis of cellular components and other energy-requiring processes such as movement. ATP is frequently referred to as the "energy currency" of the cell. Dr. Boyer's work examined the detailed chemical reactions involved in this synthesis and the roles specific parts of the ATP synthase molecule played in the overall synthesis. Dr. Boyer's work on the synthesis of ATP was supported in part by the Energy Research Basic Energy Sciences and Biological and Environmental Research Programs and their predecessor organizations. This basic research into energy capture and use in plants and bacteria continues to advance our understanding of how these processes work and how they might contribute to future energy production and use. Top Scientific Breakthroughs in 1997. Each year Science Magazine lists the top ten significant developments in scientific research. The 1997 list included three topics strongly supported by ER programs - synchrotrons, fullerenes and genomes. Richard Smalley's Nobel Prize winning discovery of fullerenes continues to generate exciting science at the nano- (one billionth of a meter) scale. Dr. Smalley's work was supported by Basic Energy Sciences and the structure of buckyballs and many of its derivatives were determined at ER's National Synchrotron Light Source and neutron scattering facilities. Today, ER supported research such as Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory's characterization of the properties of nanotubes, are a continuation of this research agenda. Microbial genome research, that builds on our capabilities and contributes to our mission, has contributed to the accomplishment of "what once seemed a pie- in-the-sky goal-- analyzing whole genomes". Third generation synchrotron radiation sources, the Advanced Photon Source and the Advanced Light Source were called out for enaabling breakthroughs in the structure of materials. 

*******************

Article 779

The energy cycle of all biological organisms involves the central molecule, ATP. The energy captured from photosynthesis or released from respiration is converted into ATP where it is used for maintenance of cells, synthesis of cellular components and other energy-requiring processes such as movement. ATP is frequently referred to as the "energy currency" of the cell. Dr. Boyer's work examined the detailed chemical reactions involved in this synthesis and the rules specific parts of the ATP synthase molecule played in the overall synthesis. Dr. Boyer's work on the synthesis of ATP was supported in part by the Energy Research Basic Energy Sciences and Biological and Environmental Research Programs and their predecessor organizations. This basic research into energy capture and use in plants and bacteria continues to advance our understanding of how these processes work and how they might contribute to future energy production and use.
Top Scientific Breakthroughs in 1997. Each year Science Magazine lists the top ten significant developments in scientific research. The 1997 list included- .three topics strongly supported by ER programs - synchrotrons, fullerenes and genomes. Richard Smalley's Nobel Prize winning discovery of fullerenes continues to generate exciting science at the nano- (one billionth ora meter) scale. Dr. Smalley's work was supported by Basic Energy Sciences and the structure of buckyballs and many of its derivatives were determined at ER's National Synchrotron Light Source and neutron scattering facilities. Today, ER supported research such as Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory's Characterization of the properties of nanotubes are a continuation of this research agenda. Microbial genome research, that builds on our capabilities and contributes to our mission, has contributed to the accomplishment of what once seemed a pie-in-the-sky goal--analyzing whole genomes". Third generation synchrotron radiation sources, the Advanced Photon Source and ,the Advanced Light Source were called out for enabling breakthroughs in the structure of materials.
The Advanced Photon Source (APS) completed its first year of operation in 1997. The floor of the APS was filled with experiments, many of which could not have been conducted anywhere else. Results are beginning to flow out of those experiments in many fields including: materials science and condensed matter physics, biological sciences, plant and environmental sciences, and geosciences. For example, a new structural determination and biochemical analysis of the human fragile histidine triad (FHIT) protein was performed at the APS during its first year of operation. This protein derives from a fragile site of human chromosome 3 that is commonly disrupted in association with cancer development. The unique capabilities of the APS are advancing our understanding of this tumor suppresser protein and a great many other scientific mysteries.


*******************

Article 780

The energy captured from photosynthesis or released from respiration is converted into ATP where it is used for maintenance of cells syntehsis of cellular components and other energy-requiring processes such as movement. ATP is frequently referred to as the "energy currency" of the cell. Dr. Boyer's work on the synthesis of ATP was supported in part by the Energy Research Sciences and Biological and Environmental Research Programs and their predecessor organizations. This basic research into energy capture and use in plants and bacteria continues to advance our understanding of how these processes work and how they might contribute to future energy production and use. Top Scientific Breakthroughs in 1997. Each year Science Magazine lists the top ten significant developments in scientific research. The 1997 list included three topics strongly supported by ER programs - synchrotrons, fullerenes and genomes. Richard Smalley's Nobel Prize winning discovery of fullernes continues to generates exciting science at the nano - (one billionth of a meter) scale Dr. Smalley's work was supported by Basic Energy Sciences and the structure of buckyballs and many of its derivatives were determined at ER's National Synchroton Light Source and neutron scattering facilities. Today, ER supported research such as Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory's characterization of the properties of nanotubes are a continuation to our mission, has contributed to the accomplishment of "what once seemed a pie-in-the-sky goal-- analyzing whole genomes." Third generations synchrotron radiation sources, the Advanced Photon Source and the Advanced Light Source were called out for enabling breakthroughs in the structure of materials.

*******************

Article 781

This basic research into energy capture and use in plants and bacteria continues to advance our understanding of how these processes work and how they might contribute to future energy production and use.
Top Scientific Breakthroughs in 1997. Each year Science Magazine lists the top ten significant developments in scientific research. The 1997 list included three topics strongly supported by ER programs - synchrotrons, fullerenes and genomes. Richard Smalley's Nobel Prize winning discovery of fullerenes continues to generate exciting science at the nano- (one billionth of a meter) scale. Dr. Smalley's work was supported by Basic Energy Sciences and the structure of buckyballs and many of its derivatives were determined at ER's National Synchrotron Light Source and neutron scattering facilities. Today, ER supported research such as Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory's characterization of the properties of nanotubes are a continuation of this research agenda. Microbial genome research, that builds on our capabilities and contributes to our mission, has contributed to the accomplishment of "what once seemed a pie-in-the-sky goal--analyzing whole genomes". Third generation synchrotron radiation sources, the Advanced Photon Source and the Advanced Light Source were called out for enabling breakthroughs in the structure of materials.


*******************

Article 782

General Hughes, I first want you to comment on that if you would. GEN. HUGHES: Well, I can look you in the eye and tell you that we have taken virtually all of the issues that you've mentioned into account. I do think that --
SEN. SHELBY: These are issues that should be taken into account.
GEN. HUGHES: They should be taken into account. However, there are gaps in our knowledge base that we have to continue to work on. It's particularly true in what I would call the key technology referred to generally as nanotechnology, the ability to put very complex objects in very small form, in very reduced weight in operational capabilities like missiles. That challenge, that technical challenge that is coming to us, is something we don't fully understand or have control over right now. We have a lot of work to do in the future and we maintain constant vigilance.
The last issue is I would like to characterize the three components of threat that we work with: capability, intent and will. I think we have a good understanding of the capability now and in the future that most countries who seek medium- and long-range ballistic missiles have. What we do need a better understanding of is their intent to use them and their will to use them in a given context. That's where most of the surprise actually has come from. We were not technically surprised about the capability in the past; we were surprised about the way in which or the circumstances in which this capability was put to use. We need to focus on t hat. And speaking for the military side of the intelligence community, and I -- if Director Tenet will allow me, because I know my colleagues in the CIA on this issue very well -- we work closely together -- we're well aware of the need to understand intent and will.
SEN. SHELBY: Secretary Oakley, do you have any comments?
MS. OAKLEY: I don't have any further comments. We of course will be cooperating with this estimate, as we do with others. We are not equipped to really assess the capability. We feel that our contribution is much stronger on the intent and will chapters, and we'll be working with them.
SEN. SHELBY: Director Tenet, how -- how important is it that this estimate be well done, in other words be comprehensive as analysts can make it.
MR. TENET: It is extremely important to me, sir, as it is to you.
SEN. SHELBY: We thank the panel for being here. We look forward to the closed hearing this afternoon.
The committee is adjourned.


*******************

Article 783

Overall, the impact of applied automation and computers, electromagnetic warfare, brilliant sensors, and the other technologies listed below will lead to the rise of a militarytechno culture in which time, space, speed, and other fundamental conditions are radically changed. These developments have the potential to dramatically alter the nature of warfare and the characteristics of future threats.
- Nuclearization and the proliferation of WMD capabilities - Precision munitions - Electrodynamic weapons - "Conventional"'weapons of mass destruction - Non-lethal weapons - Information technology and cybemetic warfare - Camouflage, cover, concealment, denial, and deception (C3D2) - Techno-terrorism - Nanotechnology - Applied Biotechnologies
To date the development and integrated application of the most important military technologies and concepts has been limited to the advanced western militaries -particularly the United States. One key reason is economic. In general, these technologies are very expensive to develop and maintain and most nations have emphasized other priorities since the end of the Cold War. In fact non-US global defense spending has dropped some 40 percent since the late 1980s, and the "military modernization accounts" -- research and development, and procurement -- have been hit even harder. Moreover, during the same period, the global arms market has decreased by morethan 50 percent. With reduced domestic procurement, declining foreign sonsumption, and other spending imperatives, many nations have had neither the motivation, the resources, nor the capability to pursue high technology military endeavors. Over the next decade, however, as post Cold War defense reorganizations are completed, defense industries stabilize, and funding (potentially) increases, these areas could see additional, albeit still limited, emphasis.
New (Modified) Forms of Warfare
Technology, combined with the creative genius of military thinkers around the world, is leading to the development and application of new forms of warfare, and the innovative modification of traditional military practices.


*******************

Article 784

- Ballistic and cruise missile proliferation presents a growing challenge to deployed US forces worldwide. While the types of missiles most likely to be proliferated will be a generation or two behind the global state of the art, states that acquire them will have increased or enhanced capabilities for delivering WMD or conventional payloads inter-regionally against fixed targets. We are particularly concerned about two trends:

- The significant increase we expect over the next two decades in the numbers of ballistic missiles with ranges between 300 and 1,500 kilometers.

- The potential for land attack cruise missiles to be more widely proliferated.

Certain key technologies, such as nanotechnology - which allows advanced functions to be achieved in very small and lightweight form - are important to the development and effective delivery of WMD. Information-related technology, including encryption, high volume data handling, complex computational capability, and offensive and defensive information warfare capabilities, are also critical proliferation concerns.

Terrorism

Terrorism will continue as a global challenge so long as groups and individuals oppose established political, economic, and social processes due to perceived ethnic, religious, nationalist, political, and other forms of discrimination. In some cases, the use of extreme violence for some identifiable goal will be more criminal and less political than in the past, blurring the line between terrorism and common crime. The characteristics of the most effective "terrorists groups" - highly compartmented operations planning, good cover and security, extreme suspicion of outsiders, and ruthlessness - make them very challenging intelligence targets. The following emerging trends are particularly noteworthy:


*******************

Article 785

SHELBY: And these are issues that should be taken into...


HUGHES: They should be taken into account.


However, there are gaps in our knowledge base that we have to continue to work on. It's particularly true in what I would call the key technology referred to generally as nanotechnology, the ability to put very complex objects in very small form and very reduced weight in operational capabilities like missiles.


And that challenge, that technical challenge, that is coming to us is something we don't fully understand or have control over right now.


We have a lot of work to do in the future and we need to maintain constant vigilance.


*******************

Article 786

The conferees intend that funds provided for rural outreach grants be allocated for the two projects identified in the Senate report, as well as for a $750,000 telemedicine communication network linking the Melvin R. Laird Center to geographically remote sites; a $1,000,000 grant to a community health center in Franklin County, MA to establish a rural school-based health center network; and $1,500,000 to establish a technology-based ambulatory outreach demonstration that will improve the coordination and dissemination of health information to rural health sites through the use of a software package that provides on-line, real-time medical records access, education, scheduling and infrastructure linkages to a health network that includes multiple hospital and primary care sites.


The conferees intend that funding provided for rural health research be allocated for the three projects identified in the Senate report.


The conference agreement includes bill language designating a total of $28,000,000 for the construction and renovation of health care and other facilities. These funds are to be used for the facilities described in the Senate report, as well as for facilities for the Pulaski County, Kentucky health department; the Clearwater Free Clinic in Florida; the Tuskegee University Bioethics Center in Alabama; the National Center for Nanofabrication and Molecular Self-Assembly at Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois; the Greater Houston Community Health Network in Houston, Texas; the Barbara Bush Childrens Hospital of the Maine Medical Center; and construction and renovation associated with transition grants for small, rural hospitals in Iowa. The Senate bill provided $10,000,000 for facility construction; the House bill did not provide funding.


The conferees concur with language contained in the House report indicating that total administrative costs for the agency as defined in the budget justification increase by no more than one percent from 1997 to 1998.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention


disease control, research, and training


*******************

Article 787

In a second article "21st Century Air Warfare," Colonel Ming Zengfu of the Air Force Command Institute argues that "the air battlefield will become decisively significant" in future warfare. He too stresses China's air force must be "linked" to space forces. Ming concludes that not only is it correct that "he who controls outer space controls the Earth," but also "to maintain air superiority one must control outer space."
Asymmetrical Attack with Nanotechnology Weapons
An article by Major General Sun Bailin of the Academy of Military Science is particularly important because it illustrates how asymmetrical attacks on US military forces could be carried out with extremely advanced. General Sun points out that US dependence on "information superhighways" will make it vulnerable to attack by micro-scale robot "electrical incapacitation systems."
The targets would be American electrical power systems, civilian aviation systems, transportation networks, seaports and shipping, highways, television broadcast stations, telecommunications systems, computer centers, factories and enterprises, and so forth. US military equipment will also be vulnerable to asymmetrical attack by "ant robots." According to General Sun, these are a type of micro-scale electromechanical system that can be controlled with sound. The energy source of ant robots is a micro-scale microphone that can transform sound into energy. People can use them to creep into the enemy's vital equipment and lurk there for as long as several decades. In peacetime, they do not cause any problem. In the event of relations between two countries becoming worse, to the point that they develop into warfare, remote control equipment can be used to activate the hidden ant robots, so that they can destroy or "devour" the enemy's equipment.


*******************

Article 788

Federal investments in superconductivity research in support of the now-abandoned Superconducting SuperCollider (SSC) project propelled the United States to global leadership in the field. But it was scientists at Japan's Fujikura Ltd. that developed a new method for manufacturing superconducting tape capable of unprecedented current densities. This technology holds great promise for use in a broad spectrum of applications across many industries, including electric utility equipment, electrical power transmission, and diagnostic medical magnetic resonance imaging. Even now, in its nascent development stage, the market for superconductors is $1.7 billion.Japanese scientists have also capitalized on another American discovery: bucky balls. These unique carbon forms may well lead to practical superconductors, faster computers, and safer medical treatments. Though two American university researchers and one from Great Britain received the Nobel Prize for their discovery of bucky balls, it was researchers at NEC Corporation's Tsukuba Research Laboratories that discovered and refined a process for creating nanotubes-an elongated bucky ball with the potential for creating composite materials that are stronger and lighter than any metal.
- The message from these examples is clear: Nations around the world are now as adept as the United States in using the results of basic research. If America fails to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research, companies around the world will-and the jobs and economic growth from these innovations will flow to their countries, not ours.


*******************

Article 789

Federal investments in superconductivity research in support of the now-abandoned Superconducting SuperCollider (SSC) project propelled the United States to global leadership in the field. But it was scientists at Japans Fujikura Ltd. that developed a new method for manufacturing superconducting tape capable of unprecedented current densities. This technology holds great promise for use in a broad spectrum of applications across many industries, including electric utility equipment, electrical power transmission, and diagnostic medical magnetic resonance imaging. Even now, in its nascent development stage, the market for superconductors is $1.7 billion.

Japanese scientists have also capitalized on another American discovery: bucky balls. These unique carbon forms may well lead to practical superconductors, faster computers, and safer medical treatments. Though two American university - researchers and one from Great Britain received the Nobel Prize for their discovery of bucky balls, it was researchers at NEC Corporation's Tsukuba Research Laboratories that discovered and refined a process for creating nanotubes-an elongated bucky ball with the potential for creating composite materials that are stronger and lighter than any metal.

The message from these examples is clear: Nations around the world are now as adept as the United States in using the results of basic research. If America fails to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research, companies around the world will-and the jobs and economic growth from these innovations will flow to their countries, not ours.


*******************

Article 790

If you take all of these into account, the support DOE provides, relating directly to universities, is much larger than a cursory look at DOE's R&D data would suggest.

B. NOBEL PRIZES

The Department of Energy has a long track record of excellence in research; it has been associated with the award of 71 Nobel prizes. In 1995, 4 of the 5 Nobel Laureates in physics and chemistry had been supported by DOE, as well as 3 of the Nobel recipients in 1996. In 1996, Richard Smalley and Robert Curl of Rice University shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work on fullerenes (their work was sponsored by DOE and the NSF). These are the so-called Buckyballs named after R. Buckminster Fuller who invented the geodesic dome; the geodesic dome is a soccerball-like structure that can support large stress due to its shape.

Carbon is among the most versatile chemical elements and materials that we know. We knew that forms of carbon could range from the extremely soft, such as graphite, to the very hardest, such as diamonds, depending on how the carbon atoms were organized -- in sheets or in complex lattices. What we did not know, until Smalley and Curl's work, was that carbon atoms could also organize themselves into soccerball-like structures, capable of withstanding large forces, while being extremely lightweight.

The fact that they exist opens up fascinating avenues of research including improving the delivery of drugs, carried within buckyballs, that would take the drugs to the site where they were needed.

In 1996, David Lee and Douglas Osheroff shared the Nobel Prize in Physics for their discovery of superfluidity in helium- 3. David Lee was a visiting scientist at Brookhaven National Laboratory in 1966 while working on some of the techniques later used in the prize-winning research. Stanford Professor Douglas Osheroff is currently performing DOE-sponsored research on the low temperature dielectric properties of glassy materials which could eventually yield insight into the electric conductivity of many non-metallic (amorphous) materials.


*******************

Article 791

Similar success stories abound in today's world, such as bacteria that munch on oil spills, classroom computers that adapt automatically to students' strengths and weaknesses, and new chemical techniques that slash the cost of drug design and development. Each can be traced back to investments in people and ideas through research and education in science and engineering. In this same way, we have great expectations that recent breakthroughs in fundamental research hold the key to future economic success. For example, the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded for research on the carbon structures known as buckyballs that NSF has supported for over a decade. Today, these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckyballs together to create "nanotubes" - which turn out to be 100 times stronger than steel but only one sixth the weight. In the words of The Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super-fiber of the future." These and other examples bring to life what top economists have been saying for years: public investments in science and engineering yield immense dividends to our economy and society.Furthermore, NSF's unique role - that of supporting university-based (nonclinical) research and education across all fields and disciplines - has been found to be among the most productive of all public investments. One seminal study 1 has estimated that the rate of return on investments in academic research exceeds 25 percent on an annual basis. outpacing even the stock market over the long haul. Other studies have found an increasingly vital link between our university research base and the competitive position of U.S. industry. Newly awarded patents, for example, draw upon current findings from academic research at a rate never before seen in history.


*******************

Article 792

Federal investments in superconductivity research in support of the now-abandoned Superconducting SuperCollider (SSC) project propelled the United States to global leadership in the field. But it was scientists at Japan' s Fujikura Ltd. that developed a new method for manufacturing superconducting tape capable of unprecedented current densities. This technology holds great promise for use in a broad spectrum of applications across many industries, including electric utility equipment, electrical power transmission, and diagnostic medical magnetic resonance imaging. Even now, in its nascent development stage, the market for superconductors is $1.7 billion.
Japanese scientists have also capitalized on another American discovery: buckyballs. These unique carbon forms may well lead to practical superconductors, faster computers, and safer medical treatments. Though two American university researchers and one from Great Britain received the Nobel Prize for their discovery of buckyballs, it was researchers at NEC Corporation's Tsukuba Research Laboratories that discovered and refined a process for creating nanotubes--an elongated buckyball with the potential for creating composite materials that are stronger and lighter than any metal.
The message from these examples is clear: Nations around the world are now as adept as the United States in using the results of basic research. If America fails to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research, companies around the world will--and the jobs and economic growth from these innovations will flow to their countries, not ours.


*******************

Article 793

MR. LANE: As you know, Mr. Chairman, NSF-supported discoveries have had a large impact on our world from understanding how plants respond to disease and in fact paving the way to plants that can resist parasites without pesticides to developing microbes that purify contaminated ground water to using auditory detection strategies that were first identified in frogs as models for improved hearing aids. The 1996 Nobel Prize in chemistry was awarded for research that NSF has supported for over a decade on carbon molecules known as buckey balls. Today these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckey balls to create tiny nanotubes which are 100 times stronger than steel but only one-sixth the weight. In the words of the Washington Post, these could be the drop-dead superfiber of the future.
NSF's unique role, support for university-based research and education across all fields has been found to be among the most productive of all federal investments. One seminal study has estimated that the rate of return on investments in academic research exceeds 25 percent on an annual basis, outpacing even the stock market over the long haul. This investment can only be sustained by training future generations of researchers. America's system of higher education sets a world leading standard for excellence and inclusiveness, yet even this outstanding system faces challenges in preparing students to deal with the rapidly changing scientific and technological world. NSF addresses these challenges by supporting innovative, systemic approaches to education and training at all levels.
NSF remains committed to delivering the highest possible returns on the nation's investment. We've traditionally maintained a very low overhead rate and have received national recognition for our commitment to efficiency and productivity. This past December, NSF became the first federal agency to receive the prestigious National Information Infrastructure Award which recognizes innovative uses of the Internet and Worldwide Web in business, education and government.


*******************

Article 794

Similar success stories abound in today's world, such as bacteria that munch on oil spills, classroom computers that adapt automatically to students' strengths and weaknesses, and new chemical techniques that slash the cost of drug design and development. Each can be traced back to investments in people and ideas through research and education in science and engineering.

In this same way, we have great expectations that recent breakthroughs in fundamental research hold the key to future economic success. For example, the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded for research on the carbon structures known as buckyballs that NSF has supported for over a decade. Today, these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckyballs together to create "nanotubes" - which turn out to be 1 00 times stronger than steel but only one sixth the weight. In the words of The Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super-fiber of the future." These and other examples bring to life what top economists have been saying for years: public investments in science and engineering yield immense dividends to our economy and society.

Furthermore, NSF's unique role - that of supporting university-based (non-clinical) research and education across all fields and disciplines - has been found to be among the most productive of all public investments. One seminal study'has estimated that the rate of return on investments in academic research exceeds 25 percent on an annual basis, outpacing even the stock market over the long haul. Other studies have found an increasingly vital link between our university research base and the competitive position of U.S. industry. Newly awarded patents, for example, draw upon current findings from academic research at a rate never before seen in history.


*******************

Article 795

Federal investments in superconductivity research in support of the now-abandoned Superconducting SuperCollider (SSC) project propelled the United States to global leadership in the field. But it was scientists at Japan's Fujikura Ltd. that developed a new method for manufacturing superconducting tape capable of unprecedented current densities. This technology holds great promise for use in a broad spectrum of applications across many industries, including electric utility equipment, electrical power transmission, and diagnostic medical magnetic resonance imaging. Even now, in its nascent development stage, the market for superconductors is $1.7 billion.

Japanese scientists have also capitalized on another American discovery: buckyballs. These unique carbon forms may well lead to practical superconductors, faster computers, and safer medical treatments. Though two American university researchers and one from Great Britain received the Nobel Prize for their discovery of buckyballs, it was researchers at NEC Corporation's Tsukuba Research Laboratories that discovered and refined a process for creating nanotubes--an elongated buckyball with the potential for creating composite materials that are stronger and lighter than any metal.

The message from these examples is clear: Nations around the world are now as adept as the United States in using the results of basic research. If America fails to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research, companies around the world will--and the jobs and economic growth from these innovations will flow to their countries, not ours.

The Technology Administration has several initiatives that are designed to help ensure that Americans benefit first and foremost from our national investments in fundamental research.


*******************

Article 796

Similar success stories abound in today's world, such as bacteria that munch on oil spills, classroom computers that adapt automatically to students' strengths and weaknesses, and new chemical techniques that slash the cost of drug design and development. Each can be traced back to investments in people and 'ideas through research and education in science and engineering.
In this same way, we have great expectations that recent breakthroughs in fundamental research hold the key to future economic success. For example, the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded for research on the carbon structures known as buckyballs that NSF has supported for over a decade. Today, these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckyballs together to create "nanotubes" - which turn out to be 100 times stronger than steel but only one sixth the weight. In the words of The Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super-fiber of the future." These and other examples bring to life what top economists have been saying for years: public investments in science and engineering yield immense dividends to our economy and society.


*******************

Article 797

Similar success stories abound in today's world, such as bacteria that munch on oil spills, classroom computers that adapt automatically to students' strengths and weaknesses, and new chemical techniques that slash the cost of drug design and development. Each can be traced back to investments in people and ideas through research and education in science and engineering.

In this same way, we have great expectations that recent breakthroughs in fundamental research hold the key to future economic success. For example, the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded for research on the carbon structures known as buckyballs that NSF has supported for over a decade. Today, these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckyballs together to create "nanotubes" - which turn out to be 100 times stronger than steel but only one sixth the weight. In the words of The Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super-fiber of the future." These and other examples bring to life what top economists have been saying for years: public investments in science and engineering yield immense dividends to our economy and society.

Furthermore, NSF's unique role -- that of supporting university-based (non clinical) research and education across all fields and disciplines -- has been found to be among the most productive of all public investments. One seminal study has estimated that the rate of return on investments in academic research exceeds 25 percent on an annual basis, outpacing even the stock market over the long haul. Other studies have found an increasingly vital link between our university research base and the competitive position of U.S. industry. Newly awarded patents, for example, draw upon current findings from academic research at a rate never before seen in history.


*******************

Article 798

First, we can be thankful whenever any country expands its scientific and technologic capacities. Dr. Good says that the rest of the world now spends nearly a third more on R&D than does the U.S. If that estimate is correct, we are responsible for about 43 percent of the world's R&D. Is that the right percentage for a country that has 5 percent of the world's population? Is it too little? Is it, perhaps, too much?
There is no answer to the question of what is the correct amount, but we benefit from and should not fear other countries' spending on R&D. Scientists and engineers engaged in civilian R&D don't keep secrets very well. Their professional satisfaction and reputations depend on publishing their results, making them available to other scientists. One of the wonders of science is the great importance that priority of discovery has in establishing a scientist's reputation./4 Priority depends on publishing the new discovery, making research products public goods, available to all who read and listen, to be used in furthering science, in improving technology, and in producing products for commerce.
Dr. Good presented three cautionary tales from the "globalization of technology." The U.S. NIH funds a lot of fundamental biological research, but it was Scottish scientists who cloned Dolly. U.S. leads the world in superconductivity research, but Japanese scientists developed a method to manufacture superconducting tape for use in superconductors. Two U.S. scientists and one from the U.K. first synthesized buckyballs (geodesic-dome like structures of 60 carbon atoms), but Japanese scientists have synthesized nanotubes--elongated buckyballs--that may be of great value in making new composite materials. She worries that America will fail to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research and that other countries will. The three stories demonstrate the flow of ideas and techniques from the U.S. to other countries. The other countries' researchers have made "value-added" contributions to the U.S. discoveries. So what.'? Are U.S. scientists so enfeebled that they are incapable to bringing back the information from Scotland or Japan and developing it farther? Are the guys up at NIH throwing their hands in the air and saying, "Woe is us. The Scots working in a laboratory that is supported entirely by private funds--have gotten ahead of us, and we've fallen behind, and we're doomed to doing second- or third-class science from now on and our country is so far behind in the technology race that Scotland will be the economic envy of the world"? I doubt it, but that's where Dr. Good's testimony leads.


*******************

Article 799

Similar success stories abound in today's world, such as bacteria that munch on oil spills, classroom computers that adapt automatically to students' strengths and weaknesses, and new chemical techniques that slash the cost of drug design and development. Each can be traced back to investments in people and ideas through research and education in science and engineering.
In this same way, we have great expectations that recent breakthroughs in fundamental research hold the key to future economic success. For example, the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded for research on the carbon structures known as buckyballs that NSF has supported for over a decade. Today, these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckyballs together to create "nanotubes" - which turn out to be 100 times stronger than steel but only one sixth the weight. In the words of The Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super-fiber of the future." These and other examples bring to life what top economists have been saying for years: public investments in science and engineering yield immense dividends to our economy and society.Furthermore, NSF's unique role - that of supporting university-based (nonclinical) research and education across all fields and disciplines - has been found to be among the most productive of all public investments. One seminal study has estimated that the rate of return on investments in academic research exceeds 25 percent on an annual basis, outpacing even the stock market over the long haul. Other studies have found an increasingly vital link between our university research base and the competitive position of U.S. industry. Newly awarded patents, for example, draw upon current findings from academic research at a rate never before seen in history.


*******************

Article 800

We are continuously evaluating alternative flight opportunities to supplement and ensure the continuity of an active flight research program. Candidates include additional Space Shuttle flights during the 1998 - 2001 period, which might employ a pressurized carrier. In addition, we are pursuing increased access to the space shuttle middeck for small payloads and studying the feasibility for additional flights of the Russian biosatellite series of spacecraft. In the event such opportunities emerge, we intend to invite international and commercial participation in order to minimize cost impacts. Technology in OLMSA
Technology continues to be a major part of OLMSA programs.
To maximize the return for science, technology, and commercial activities, OLMSA examines technologies and strategies applicable to operations in extreme environments. These include: microsensors and nanotechnology; incorporation of telemetry, telescience, teleoperations, telemedicine, predictive diagnostics and informatics; portability of research facilities, diagnostics, and repairs; robotics, examining the human/machine interface; reduction of consumables for life support; and data processing in situ.
Technology workshops were held throughout the year on the topics of Human Health and Performance, Gravitational Biology, Microgravity, and Commercial Payloads. The primary objective of these workshops was to identify technology which can be infused into the space station research facilities. Each workshop was attended by industry and by representatives from other government agencies as well as by NASA research representatives and the NASA facility developers.
As a result, important technology requirements and opportunities have been identified in areas such as information and communication, observation and sensing, automation and robotics, and environmental control and conditioning, as well as in discipline-unique areas such as microgravity. Some of these technologies will mitigate limitations of the early space station utilization, while others will advance the state of the art in specific disciplines. Our current plan is to issue Cooperative Agreement Notices requesting industry-government partnerships to infuse these technologies into the facilities and enhance the research return from Space Station.


*******************

Article 801

Moreover, the technologies that made possible these new innovations were in turn made possible by steady and stable Federal support for the instruments and insights needed to extend the frontiers of physics, cosmology, supercomputing, manufacturing research, and other areas of science and engineering that demand the most of new technologies.

Similar success stories abound in today's world, such as bacteria that munch on oil spills, classroom computers that adapt automatically to students' strengths and weaknesses, and new chemical techniques that slash the cost of drug design and development. Each can be traced back to investments in people and ideas through research and education in science and engineering.

In this same way, we have great expectations that recent breakthroughs in fundamental research hold the key to future economic success. For example, the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded for research on the carbon structures known as buckyballs that NSF has supported for over a decade. Today, these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckyballs together to create "nanotubes" - which turn out to be 100 times stronger than steel but only one sixth the weight. In the words of The Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super-fiber of the future." These and other examples bring to life what top economists have been saying for years: public investments in science and engineering yield immense dividends to our economy and society.

Furthermore, NSF's unique role -- that of supporting university-based (nonclinical) research and education across all fields and disciplines -- has been found to be among the most productive of all public investments. One seminal study has estimated that the rate of return on investments in academic research exceeds 25 percent on an annual basis, outpacing even the stock market over the long haul. Other studies have found an increasingly vital link between our university research base and the competitive position of U.S. industry. Newly awarded patents, for example, draw upon current findings from academic research at a rate never before seen in history.


*******************

Article 802

One of the wonders of science is the great importance that priority of discovery has in establishing a scientist's reputation. 4 Priority depends on publishing the new discovery, making research products public goods, available to all who read and listen, to be used in furthering science, in improving technology, and in producing products for commerce.

Dr. Good presented three cautionary tales from the "globalization of technology." The U.S. NIH funds a lot of fundamental biological research, but it was Scottish scientists who cloned Dolly. U.S. leads the world in superconductivity research, but Japanese scientists developed a method to manufacture superconducting tape for use in superconductors. Two U.S. scientists and one from the U.K. first synthesized buckyballs (geodesic-dome like structures of 60 carbon atoms), but Japanese scientists have synthesized nanotubes--elongated buckyballs--that may be of great value in making new composite materials. She worries that America will fail to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research and that other countries will. 4 Paula E. Stephan, "The Economics of Science," Journal of Economic Literature XXXIV (1996):1199-1235 @ p. 1201 (emphasis in original).

The three stories demonstrate the flow of ideas and techniques from the U.S. to other countries. The other countries' researchers have made "value-added" contributions to the U.S. discoveries. So what? Are U.S. scientists so enfeebled that they are incapable to bringing back the information from Scotland or Japan and developing it farther? Are the guys up at NIH throwing their hands in the air and saying, "Woe is us. The Scots--working in a laboratory that is supported entirely by private funds--have gotten ahead of us, and we've fallen behind, and we're doomed to doing second- or third-class science from now on and our country is so far behind in the technology race that Scotland will be the economic envy of the world"? I doubt it, but that's where Dr. Good's testimony leads.

Dr. Good says, approvingly I think, that companies around the world now seek out the best the world has to offer in product, process, and technology and brings it home. Why then does ATP's own evaluation point with pride to a project that involved GM and Chrysler (both of which enjoy very large profits) as well as some smaller firms in the development of tools and techniques to control closeness of fit in assembly of automobile bodies? 5 Such methods were already in use in Japan. Who gained because GM and Chrysler didn't simply go buy the technology?


*******************

Article 803

Federal investments in superconductivity research in support of the now-abandoned Superconducting SuperCollider (SSC) project propelled the United States to global leadership in the field. But it was scientists at Japan's Fujikura Ltd. that developed a new method for manufacturing superconducting tape capable of unprecedented current densities. This technology holds great promise for use in a broad spectrum of applications across many industries, including electric utility equipment, electrical power transmission, and diagnostic medical magnetic resonance imaging. Even now, in its nascent development stage, the market for superconductors is $1.7 billion.
Japanese scientists have also capitalized on another American discovery: buckyballs. These unique carbon forms may well lead to practical superconductors, faster computers, and safer medical treatments. Though two American university researchers and one from Great Britain received the Nobel Prize for their discovery of buckyballs, it was researchers at NEC Corporation's Tsukuba Research Laboratories that discovered and refined a process for creating nanotubes--an elongated buckyball with the potential for creating composite materials that are stronger and lighter than any metal.
The message from these examples is clear: Nations around the world are now as adept as the United States in using the results of basic research. If America fails to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research, companies around the world will--and the jobs and economic growth from these innovations will flow to their countries, not ours.


*******************

Article 804

Federal investments in superconductivity research in support of the now-abandoned Superconducting SuperCollider (SSC) project propelled the United States to global leadership in the field. But it was scientists at Japan's Fujikura Ltd. that developed a new method for manufacturing superconducting tape capable of unprecedented current densities. This technology holds great promise for use in a broad spectrum of applications across many industries, including electric utility equipment, electrical power transmission, and diagnostic medical magnetic resonance imaging. Even now, in its nascent development stage, the market for superconductors is $1.7 billion.

Japanese scientists have also capitalized on another American discovery: buckyballs. These unique carbon forms may well lead to practical superconductors, faster computers, and safer medical treatments. Though two American university researchers and one from Great Britain received the Nobel Prize for their discovery of buckyballs, it was researchers at NEC Corporation's Tsukuba Research Laboratories that discovered and refined a process for creating nanotubes-an elongated buckyball with the potential for creating composite materials that are stronger and lighter than !fly metal.

The message from these examples is clear: Nations around the world are now as adept as the United States in using the results of basic research. If America falls to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research, companies around the world will-and the jobs and economic growth from these innovations will flow to their countries, not ours.


*******************

Article 805

Federal investments in superconductivity research in support of the now-abandoned Superconducting SuperCollider (SSC) project propelled the United States to global leadership in the field. But it was scientists at Japan's Fujikura Ltd. that developed a new method for manufacturing superconducting tape capable of unprecedented current densities. This technology holds great promise for use in a broad spectrum of applications across many industries, including electric utility equipment, electrical power transmission, and diagnostic medical magnetic resonance imaging. Even now, in its nascent development stage, the market for superconductors is $1.7 billion.


Japanese scientists have also capitalized on another American discovery: buckyballs. These unique carbon forms may well lead to practical superconductors, faster computers, and safer medical treatments. Though two American university researchers and one from Great Britain received the Nobel Prize for their discovery of buckyballs, it was researchers at NEC Corporation's Tsukuba Research Laboratories that discovered and refined a process for creating nanotubes--an elongated buckyball with the potential for creating composite materials that are stronger and lighter than any metal.
The message from these examples is clear: Nations around the world are now as adept as the United States in using the results of basic research. If America fails to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research, companies around the world will--and the jobs and economic growth from these innovations will flow to their countries, not ours.
The Technology Administration has several initiatives that are designed to help ensure that Americans benefit first and foremost from our national investments in fundamental research.


*******************

Article 806

Federal investments in superconductivity research in support of the now-abandoned Superconducting SuperCollider (SSC) project propelled the United States to global leadership in the field. But it was scientists at Japan's Fujikura Ltd. that developed a new method for manufacturing superconducting tape capable of unprecedented current densities. This technology holds great promise for use in a broad spectrum of applications across many industries, including electric utility equipment, electrical power transmission, and diagnostic medical magnetic resonance imaging. Even now, in its nascent development stage, the market for superconductors is $1.7 billion.

Japanese scientists have also capitalized on another American discovery: buckyballs. These unique carbon forms may well lead to practical superconductors, faster computers, and safer medical treatments. Though two American university researchers and one from Great Britain received the Nobel Prize for their discovery of buckyballs, it was researchers at NEC Corporation's Tsukuba Research Laboratories that discovered and refined a process for creating nanotubes -- an elongated buckyball with the potential for creating composite materials that are stronger and lighter than any metal.

The message from these examples is clear: Nations around the world are now as adept as the United States in using the results of basic research. If America falls to capitalize on its investments in fundamental research, companies around the world will-and the jobs and economic growth from these innovations will flow to their countries, not ours.


*******************

Article 807

ENERGY RESEARCH - SERVING TODAY
Research sponsored by the Office of Energy Research is producing benefits today. ER's current investments are extending the frontiers of knowledge and contributing to many of the Nation's most pressing concerns and priorities.
Nobel Prize. The 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Basic Energy Sciences (BES)supported researchers Professors Richard Smalley and Robert Curl of Rice University and to Sir Harry Kroto of the University of Sussex. The award was given for the discovery of a new form (allotrope) of carbon, buckminsterfullerene (buckyballs), which contains 60 carbon atoms in the shape of a soccer ball. Buckminsterfullerene was discovered in 1985 during experiments on carbon clusters in the laboratory of Richard E. Smalley using a technique pioneered at Rice University in the early 1980s with support of the Basic Energy Sciences program. The structure of buckyballs and many of its derivatives were determined at the ER-funded National Synchrotron Light Source and neutron scattering facilities. An entirely new chemistry has been developed to manipulate the fullerene structure making possible the production of superconducting salts, new three-dimensional polymers, new catalysts, and materials with new electrical and optical properties. From a theoretical point of view, the discovery of the fullerenes has influenced our views of such widely disparate scientific problems as the galactic carbon cycle and classical aromaticity, a keystone of theoretical chemistry. Microbial Genome. On August 22, 1996, a research team sponsored by the Biological and Environmental Research program (BER) at The Institute for Genome Research, located in Rockville, Maryland, announced the complete sequencing of the genome of a methane-producing microbe that lives 8,000 feet deep in ocean thermal vents at 250 atmospheres of pressure, and 185x Fahrenheit temperature. These pressures would easily crush ordinary submarines. Noted by Discover magazine as one of the key scientific advances of 1996, the sequencing of the genome of this microbe also confirmed the existence of the third branch of life that had only been suspected - the archea. ER sponsored research has found other microbes living in similar extreme conditions - such as at the bottom of oil wells or in radioactive waste. In the human health area, our human genome research uncovered genes thought responsible for certain migraine headachesand a severe blood disease called Fanconi's Anemia.


*******************

Article 808

ENERGY RESEARCH - SERVING TODAY

Research sponsored by the Office of Energy Research is producing benefits today. ER's current investments are extending the frontiers of knowledge and contributing to many of the Nation's most pressing concerns and priorities.

Nobel Prize. The 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Basic Energy Sciences (BES)-supported researchers Professors Richard Smalley and Robert Curl of Rice University and to Sir Harry Kroto of the University of Sussex. The award was given for the discovery of a new form (allotrope) of carbon, buckminsterfullerene (buckyballs), which contains 60 carbon atoms in the shape of a soccer ball. Buckminsterfullerene was discovered in 1985 during experiments on carbon clusters in the laboratory of Richard E. Smalley using a technique pioneered at Rice University in the early 1980s with support of the Basic Energy Sciences program. The structure of buckyballs and many of its derivatives were determined at the ER-funded National Synchrotron Light Source and neutron scattering facilities. An entirely new chemistry has been developed to manipulate the fullerene structure making possible the production of superconducting salts, new three-dimensional polymers, new catalysts, and materials with new electrical and optical properties. From a theoretical point of view, the discovery of the fullerenes has influenced our views of such widely disparate scientific problems as the galactic carbon cycle and classical aromaticity, a keystone of theoretical chemistry.

Microbial Genome. On August 22, 1996, a research team sponsored by the Biological and Environmental Research program (BER) at The Institute for Genome Research, located in Rockville, Maryland, announced the complete sequencing of the genome of a methane-producing microbe that lives 8,000 feet deep in ocean thermal vents at 250 atmospheres of pressure, and 185 Fahrenheit temperature. These pressures would easily crush ordinary submarines. Noted by Discover magazine as one of the key scientific advances of 1996, the sequencing of the genome of this microbe also confirmed the existence of the third branch of life that had only been suspected - the archea. ER sponsored research has found other microbes living in similar extreme conditions -- such as at the bottom of oil wells or in radioactive waste. In the human health area, our human genome research uncovered genes thought responsible for certain migraine headaches and a severe blood disease called Fanconi's Anemia.


*******************

Article 809

Moreover, the technologies that made possible these new innovations were in turn made possible by steady and stable Federal support for the instruments and insights needed to extend the frontiers of physics, cosmology, supercomputing, maat munch on oil spills, classroom computers that adapt automatically to students' strengths and weaknesses, and new chemical techniques that slash the cost of drug design and development. Each can be traced back to investments in people and ideas through research and education in science and engineering.
In this same way, we have great expectations that recent breakthroughs in fundamental research hold the key to future economic success. For example, the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded for research on the carbon structures known as buckyballs that NSF has supported for over a decade. Today, these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckyballs together tocreate "nanotubes"
- which turn out to be 100 times stronger than steel but only one sixth the weight. In the words of The Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super-fiber of the future." These and other examples bring to life what top economists have been saying for years: public investments in science and engineering yield immense dividends to our economy and society.
Furthermore, NSF's unique role - that of supporting university-based (nonclinical) research and education across all fie even the stock market over the long haul. Other studies have found an increasingly vital link between our university research base and the competitive position of U.S. industry. Newly awarded patents, for example, draw upon current findihold our nation's position of leadership across the spectrum of science and engineering research and education.


*******************

Article 810

ENERGY RESEARCH - SERVING TODAY
Research sponsored by the Office of Energy Research is producing benefits today. ER's current investments are extending the frontiers of knowledge and contributing to many of the Nation's most pressing concerns and priorities.
Nobel Prize. The 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Basic Energy Sciences (BES)supported researchers Professors Richard Smalley and Robert Curl of Rice University and to Sir Harry Kroto of the University of Sussex. The award was given for the discovery of a new form (allotrope) of carbon, buckminsterfullerene (buckyballs), which contains 60 carbon atoms in the shape of a soccer ball. Buckminsterfullerene was discovered in 1985 during experiments on carbon clusters in the laboratory of Richard E. Smalley using a technique pioneered at Rice University in the early 1980s with support of the Basic Energy Sciences program. The structure of buckyballs and many of its derivatives were determined at the ER-funded National Synchrotron Light Source and neutron scattering facilities. An entirely new chemistry has been developed to manipulate the fullerene structure making possible the production of superconducting salts, new three-dimensional polymers, new catalysts, and materials with new electrical and optical properties. From a theoretical point of view, the discovery of the fullerenes has influenced our views of such widely disparate scientific problems as the galactic carbon cycle and classical aromaticity, a keystone of theoretical chemistry. Microbial Genome. On August 22, 1996, an ER sponsored research team at The Institute for Genome Research, located in Rockville, Maryland, announced the complete sequencing of the genome of a methane-producing microbe that lives 8,000 feet deep in ocean thermal vents at 250 atmospheres of pressure, and 185' Fahrenheit temperature. These pressures would easily crush ordinary submarines. Noted by Discover magazine as one of the key scientific advances of 1996, the sequencing of the genome of this microbe also confirmed the existence of the third branch of life that had only been suspected - the archea. ER sponsored research has found other microbes living in similar extreme conditions - such as at the bottom of oil wells or in radioactive waste. In the human health area, our human genome research uncovered genes thought responsible for certain migraine headaches and a severe blood disease called Fanconi's Anemia,


*******************

Article 811

ENERGY RESEARCH - SERVING TODAY

Research sponsored by the Office of Energy Research is producing benefits today. ER's current investments are extending the frontiers of knowledge and contributing to many of the Nation's most pressing concerns and priorities.

Nobel Prize. The 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Basic Energy Sciences (BES)supported researchers Professors Richard Smalley and Robert Curl of Rice University and to Sir Harry Kroto of the University of Sussex. The award was given for the discovery of a new form (allotrope) of carbon, buckminsterfullerene (buckyballs), which contains 60 carbon atoms in the shape of a soccer ball. BuckminsterfWlerene was discovered in 1985 during experiments on carbon clusters in the laboratory of Richard E. Smalley using a technique pioneered at Rice University in the early 1980s with support of the Basic Energy Sciences program. The structure of buckyballs and many of its derivatives were determined at the ER-funded National Synchrotron Light Source and neutron scattering facilities. An entirely new chemistry has been developed to manipulate the fullerene structure making possible the production of superconducting salts, new three-dimensional polymers, new catalysts, and materials with new electrical and optical properties. From a theoretical point of view, the discovery of the fullerenes has influenced our views of such widely disparate scientific problems as the galactic carbon cycle and classical aromaticity, a keystone of theoretical chemistry.

Microbial Genome. On August 22, 1996, an ER sponsored research team at The Institute for Genome Research, located in Rockville, Maryland, announced the complete sequencing of the genome of a methane-producing microbe that lives 8,000 feet deep in ocean thermal vents at 250 atmospheres of pressure, and 185' Fahrenheit temperature. These pressures would easily crush ordinary submarines. Noted by Discover magazine as one of the key scientific advances of 1996, the sequencing of the genome of this microbe also confirmed the existence of the third branch of life that had only been suspected - the archea. ER sponsored research has found other microbes living in similar extreme conditions - such as at the bottom of oil wells or in radioactive waste. In the human health area, our human genome research uncovered genes thought responsible for certain migraine headaches and a severe blood disease called Fanconi's Anemia.


*******************

Article 812

Similar success stories abound in today's world - such as bacteria that munch on oil spills, classroom computers that adapt automatically to students' strengths and weaknesses, and new chemical techniques that slash the cost of drug design and development. Each can be traced back to investments in people and ideas through research and education in science and engineering.

In this same way, we have great expectations that recent breakthroughs in fundamental research hold the key to future economic success. For example, the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded for research on the carbon structures known as buckyballs that NSF has supported for over a decade. Today, these NSF-supported researchers are stringing buckyballs together to create "nanotubes" - which turn out to be 100 times stronger than steel but only one sixth the weight. In the words of The Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super-fiber of the future." These and other examples bring to life what top economists have been saying for years: public investments in science and engineering yield immense dividends to our economy and society.

Furthermore, NSF's unique role - that of supporting university-based (nonclinical) research and education across all fields and disciplines - has been found to be among the most productive of all public investments. One seminal study' has estimated that the rate of return on investments in academic research exceeds 25 percent on an annual basis, outpacing even the stock market over the long haul. Other studies have found an increasingly vital link between our university research base and the competitive position of U.S. industry. Newly awarded patents, for example, draw upon current findings from academic research at a rate never before seen in history.


*******************

Article 813

The current year-by-year approach undermines the stability required for these multiyear activities.
In order to commit funds for long-term research, a program manager must be confident that his or her future budget will be able to provide several years of research support. Reductions or elimination of continuing awards, as a result of unforeseen changes in appropriations levels, is a time-consuming and confrontational process. Multiyear appropriations would permit program managers to provide long-term funding with more certainty and stability.
The benefits to society from a more stable funding environment are not difficult to envision especially when one reflects on the time horizons associated with fundamental research. For example, the 1996 Nobel prize in chemistry went to a group of researchers studying the carbon structures known as "buckyballs". Their work was supported by NSF and other federal agencies. This work began over a decade ago. The big breakthrough cited by the Nobel Committee in fact occurred in 1985.
Today, these same researchers have taken this work to a new level of potential and possibility. A structural cousin of the buckyball -- known as the "nanotube" -- shows signs of being at least 10 times stronger than thin steel but only one-sixth the weight. To use the words of the Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super fibers of the future." This is just one of the countless examples of where exceptionally promising breakthroughs in science and technology have emerged from many years and often decades of federal support. Other examples of long term research that come to mind are sequencing the human genome, understanding climate change, developing useful high temperature superconducting materials, developing new advanced battery technology, or developing a vaccine for AIDs. 

*******************

Article 814

In order to commit funds for long-term research, a program manager must be confident that his or her future budget will be able to provide several years of research support. Reductions or elimination of continuing awards, as a result of unforeseen changes in appropriations levels, is a time-consuming and confrontational process Multiyear appropriations would permit program managers to provide long-term funding with more certainty and stability.

The benefits to society from a more stable funding environment are not difficult to envision especially when one reflects on the time horizons associated with fundamental research. For example, the 1996 Nobel prize in chemistry went to a group of researchers studying the carbon structures known as "buckyballs". Their work ,N as supported by NSF and other federal agencies. This work began over a decade ago. The big breakthrough cited by the Nobel Committee in fact occurred in 1985.

Today, these same researchers have taken this work to a new level of potential and possibility. A structural cousin of the buckyball -- known as the "nanotube" -- shows signs of being at least 10 times stronger than thin steel but only one-sixth the weight. To use the words of the Washington Post, these could be the "drop-dead super fibers of the future." This is just one of the countless examples of where exceptionally promising breakthroughs in science and technology have emerged from many years and often decades of federal support. Other examples of long term research that come to mind are sequencing the human genome, understanding climate change, developing useful high temperature superconducting materials, developing new advanced battery technology, or developing a vaccine for AlDS. The stability provided by multiyear appropriations would certainly raise the payoff from these investments to an even higher level.

The stability fashioned by multiyear funding would also allow research and development agencies to undertake more effective long-term planning of major research equipment construction. Changes in appropriations for major research equipment construction cannot be absorbed by rescinding or reducing future grants. In most cases, a contract is awarded for construction of an entire project. Sudden reductions in appropriations for major research equipment can halt construction on a project partially complete and perhaps lead to increased costs in the long run. The current budget process encourages agencies to ask for more funds than necessary up front in fear that sufficient funds will not be available in the outyears. Certainly, this is an unnecessary burden for the taxpayer.


*******************

Article 815

Lithography


The conferees support the pursuit of extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography aimed at the fabrication of 100 nanometer design rule structures to support nanowriters, nanofabrication prototypes, and the facilities for short wavelength meterologies, calibration and standards. The conferees recognize its potential as the technology of choice of the next generation short wavelength tools for the industry and encourage the Department of Defense to consider using $10.0 million, of the total authorization for lithography, for EUV technologies.


Materials nanostructures


The conferees recognize that there is no appropriation to accelerate this program. The conferees recognize the potential of the emerging field of material nanostructures. This regime of science offers the opportunity to integrate inorganic and organic chemistry and physics at the material formative dimension that will impact microelectronics, micromachines, molecular level controllers and switches, among many other applications. Nanostructures have the potential to revolutionize future military technological superiority. The conferees urge the Department of Defense to devote additional funds to the development of these promising technologies.


Molecular design


Although there was no additional funding appropriated above the Department of Defenses request that would allow the conferees to consider any additional authorization for the molecular design program, the conferees fully endorse the current program in the Office of Naval Research (ONR) and urge its continuance. The conferees agree that the scientific investigations into the molecular synthesis of atoms as foundational building blocks of new material nanostructures will lead to a culture shift that will allow "cross-cuts" in scientific disciplines of chemistry, biology and physics to occur. The conferees commend ONR, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and those universities participating in innovative research for their initiatives in this revolutionary direction of science. The conferees urge continued funding support by the Department.


Nickel-zinc battery technology


*******************

Article 816

-Parkinsons disease. The Committee is pleased that the September 1995 workshop on the link between Parkinsons and other neurodegenerative disorders and the environment was well-attended and productive. The Committee also notes that the report on the August 1995 NIH-wide Parkinsons research planning workshop concluded that the environment is likely to play a role in the cause of Parkinsons. As a result, the Committee encourages the NIEHS to increase its focus on the environmental link to Parkinsons, using the findings of its September 1995 workshop and the August 1995 research planning workshop as a guide.


-Nanofabrication. The Committee is interested in the promise for improving the detection, prevention and remediation of environmentally related illnesses by the incorporation of cell and molecular biology into techniques of nanofabrication which is the synthetic preparation of materials and devices with structural dimensions of approximately one-millionth of an inch and molecular self-assembly. The Committee encourages the Institute to continue to advance these technologies, especially in partnership with those who have demonstrated an extensive record of work with these technologies.


-Minority populations. There has been an increased recognition in the scientific and public health community that minority and disadvantaged populations are disproportionately subjected to a variety of health hazards, including air pollution. Its relationship to asthma and other pulmonary disorders is beginning to be well documented. To help examine these problems, the Committee encourages the NIEHS to consider convening a national scientific summit on air quality issues faced by the nations urban communities, working closely with the public health and scientific community.



*******************

Article 817

More recently it was found that U.S. manufacturers were not competitive with overseas manufacturers who could make optical fibers with the circular cross-section with sub-micrometer tolerances needed to avoid large signal losses in multiple connections. Responding to a TIA request, EEEL provided U.S. manufacturers with improved measurement methods and a standard reference material (SRM) that solved their problem, and now all the fiber-drawing towers of the major U.S. manufacturers use these SRMs for production control.
- Software-based electronic instruments, typically using analog-to- digital converters, require thousands of measurements for evaluation and demand a new test strategy for cost effective use in manufacturing and evaluation. EEEL developed an analysis method that permits a greatly reduced data sample to give accuracy effectively equivalent to a full test. For example, the 8192 measurements for a 13-bit converter can be replaced by only 64 measurements, reducing test time 90 percent, to 2 seconds. One manufacturer expects that using this improved method will reduce their test cost from $8 to $3 per $25 converter, translating to an annual saving of $400,000.
- In recent work in magnetics, EEEL developed measurement methods to study nanoscale friction forces on recording disks in a collaboration with a major manufacturer of computer disk drives. The forces arise from sticky projections 20 or 30 nanometers high on a hard disk platter which interfere with the reduced flying-height of the magnetic-signal reading heads needed for increased storage density. EEEL showed how atomic force microscopy could be adapted to measure the lateral forces involved thus providing the industry with a tool with which to identify the sources of increased friction.
The National Semiconductor Metrology Program
A topic of emphasis in this hearing is NIST's National Semiconductor Metrology Program which is a NIST-wide program managed by EEEL. The semiconductor industry's measurement needs are constantly escalating, being driven by the increasing complexity of integrated circuits and the requirements for tighter control of more numerous and more sophisticated manufacturing processes. Here the industry is defined broadly to include integrated circuit manufacturers, materials suppliers, and makers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Three important reasons lead NIST to work intensively to meet the measurement needs of the semiconductor industry.


*******************

Article 818

Software-based electronic instruments, typically using analog-to- digital converters, require thousands of measurements for evaluation and demand a new test strategy for cost effective use in manufacturing and evaluation. EEEL developed an analysis method that permits a greatly reduced data sample to give accuracy effectively equivalent to a full test. For example, the 8192 measurements for a 13-bit converter can be replaced by only 64 measurements, reducing test time 90 percent, to 2 seconds. One manufacturer expects that using this improved method will reduce their test cost from $8 to $3 per $25 converter, translating to an annual saving of $400,000.

In recent work in magnetics, EEEL developed measurement methods to study nanoscale friction forces on recording disks in a collaboration with a major manufacturer of computer disk drives. The forces arise from sticky projections 20 or 30 nanometers high on a hard disk platter which interfere with the reduced flying-height of the magnetic-signal reading heads needed for increased storage density. EEEL showed how atomic force microscopy could be adapted to measure the lateral forces involved thus providing the industry with a tool with which to identify the sources of increased friction.

The National Semiconductor Metrology Program

A topic of emphasis in this hearing is NIST's National Semiconductor Metrology Program which is a NIST-wide program managed by EEEL. The semiconductor industry's measurement needs are constantly escalating, being driven by the increasing complexity of integrated circuits and the requirements for tighter control of more numerous and more sophisticated manufacturing processes. Here the industry is defined broadly to include integrated circuit manufacturers, materials suppliers, and makers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Three important reasons lead NIST to work intensively to meet the measurement needs of the semiconductor industry.


*******************

Article 819

1994 Panel Recommendation: "The single-electron tunneling activity needs to switch from competence-building funding to stable core funding. Funding and staffing for this project should be stabilized at an adequate level and this project made a core component of any NIST-wide activity in this area" (p. 47). Division Response: The SET activity was begun in 1987. The importance of the work was recognized with competence funding, to continue through this fiscal year. A complementary program was begun in 1992 by the Electricity Division. That project is also competence funded, with funding through 1998. Researchers in the two divisions have established a working relationship that both division chiefs regard as excellent.

The restructured Electromagnetic Technology Division is broadening the focus of its work with a new project called Nanoscale Cryoelectronics to develop novel integrated circuits for metrology based on the unique properties of submicrometer electronic devices operated at temperatures below I K. The project has been augmented with a National Research Council postdoctoral research fellow, who will focus on the development of SET-based metrology, including prospective capacitance standards. The division plan calls for hiring a second postdoctoral researcher to work on a novel x-ray detector. The division is also seeking to hire a researcher of world renown for the general area of nanoscale cryoelectronics. The division recognizes that identifying funding sources for the standards applications of SET work is important and that this focus of the work needs to be nurtured.

1994 Panel Recommendation: "With the development of superconducting materials and instruments that operate without a liquid cryogen ... there is an enormous need for techniques and procedures to give quality assurance in the 1O to 77 K range... It is important that EEEL anticipate and adequately support the needs of the new division in this area" (p. 47).


*******************

Article 820

The budget request included $9.2 million in PE 63238N to continue concept development of the mobile off-shore base (MOBS). The committee has repeatedly expressed its concern about the potential cost of the MOBS program, which has been based upon estimates that a single MOBS system could cost approximately $2.0 billion and that the next step in the MOBS program, an advanced concept technology demonstration, could cost an estimated $700.0 million. The committee notes that the Secretary of Defense has not reported to the Congressional defense committees the plan and schedule for incorporating MOBS into the defense acquisition board process and accomplishing a Milestone O review, as was directed in the statement of managers accompanying the conference report on S. 1124 (H. Rept. 104-450). The committee understands that MOBS program funds have been identified by the Navy as a source for various fiscal year 1996 unprogrammed funding requirements and that the Navy is not seriously considering continuation of the MOBS program. Accordingly, the committee recommends a reduction of $9.2 million in the budget request.


Molecular design


The committee is aware of the initiatives of the Office of Naval Research (ONR) in molecular synthesis and processing research, making it possible to tailor new materials, atom by atom, to achieve a desired set of properties. Molecular manipulation at the atomic level into material nanostructures requires a crosscut of biochemists, inorganic chemists, physicists, and molecular biologists which can lead to a "culture shift" revolutionizing material science. The committee commends ONR for its leadership in this nationally important program. The committee recommends an additional $10.0 million in PE 61153N for continuation of the program in molecular design.


Naval joint surveillance and targeting attack radar system


The budget request included no funding for providing U.S. Naval forces the ability to receive, process, or utilize the Joint Surveillance and Attack Radar System (JSTARS) moving target indicator (MTI) synthetic aperture radar (SAR) system.



*******************

Article 821

In addition, the committee believes there are benefits to pursuing ion beam research related to its potential as a future technology for advanced lithography. The committee believes that there are several technical challenges that include mask and reticle systems, overlay accuracy and scattering effects that should be addressed by industry in collaboration with university researchers. The committee recommends an additional $1.0 million in PE 61101E for this purpose.


Materials nanostructures


The committee recognizes the potential of the emerging field of material nanostructures. This regime of science offers the opportunity to integrate inorganic and organic chemistry and physics at a material formative dimension that will have impact in micro-electronics, micromachines, molecular level controllers and switches, among many other applications, and that have the potential to revolutionize military technological superiority in the future.


The committee recommends an additional $1.0 million in PE 61101E to accelerate the Defense Advanced Research Agencys nanostructures program.


Metal castings


The budget request for metal castings was $1.0 million. The committee has been apprised of the return on the militarys investment in metal casting technology as a replacement for many machined and welded parts. Metal casting provides an opportunity to realize cost and weight savings in military component fabrication. The committee recommends an additional $2.0 million in PE 78011S for the Defense Logistics Agency to continue its program at prior year levels.


*******************

Article 822

At the same time, we are pursuing research on trapped and cooled atoms aimed at developing the next generation of frequency standards, one thousand times more accurate than NIST-7. In the course of this work, we created a so-called Bose-Einstein condensate, a new state of matter that had been predicted by Bose and Einstein 70 years ago. This condensate was named "Molecular of the Year" by Science. One of our scientists, who developed many of the cooling techniques, is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and was mentioned in the writeup of the 1989 Nobel Prize for Physics. The leader of the project has already received national and international recognition for his achievement.
Why do we need a clock with one thousand times more accuracy? We can't necessarily envision all the uses, but what we do know is that for the past 50 years, the accuracy of our frequency standard has increased by a factor of 10 every seven years--and every time it increased, there was a need for it, and U.S. economic competitiveness depended on NIST to provide it. If we had waited until the need arose, we would always have been seven years behind.
Four Thrusts
Coming back to the Laboratory as a whole, we have identified four strategic areas where we believe our experience and distinctive skills best contribute to industrial requirements and critical national needs by providing measurement methods, standards, and data:
Electronic and magnetic devices - where we develop innovative measurement methods of use to the electronics industry for device characterization and electronic information and communication. For example, we pioneered nanoscale magnetic imaging techniques used by manufacturers of magnetic storage devices seeking to increase the density of stored information.
Optical technology - where we provide the national basis for optical radiation measurement and develop optical measurement systems for industrial and environmental needs. Our standards are used, for example, by the lighting industry to produce more efficient bulbs and by the photographic industry to assure uniform quality, so that when you buy a Kodak film anywhere in the world, you know it will produce the same color tone as the one you buy in the United States.


*******************

Article 823

Leo Hollberg of the Physics Laboratory recently demonstrated lasing without population inversion in collaboration with scientists at Texas A&M, work that could lead to very high energy light photons, or even x-rays, from lasers.

The so-called Lightfab program, supported by NSF, has allowed the Physics Laboratory to collaborate with Harvard and (initially) AT&T Bell Laboratories in the use of optical techniques to study the attachment of viruses to living cells.

Scientists in the Physics Laboratory are collaborating with colleagues at the University of Maryland to study the use of fullerenes to transport radioactive material to tumors in the human body.

The Physics Laboratory's program in photo-associative spectroscopy formed the basis of an aggressive program in this area at the University of Maryland. NIST's pioneering efforts in cooling of atoms have spawned major programs in this area at Harvard and SUNY Stony Brook. The techniques that NIST developed for stabilizing lasers are being used world-wide and have led to similar programs at Stanford and the California Institute of Technology.


*******************

Article 824

Four Thrusts

Coming back to the Laboratory as a whole, we have identified four strategic areas where we believe our experience and distinctive skills best contribute to industrial requirements and critical national needs by providing measurement methods, standards, and data:

* Electronic and magnetic devices - where we develop innovative measurement methods of use to the electronics industry for device characterization and electronic information and communication. For example, we pioneered nanoscale magnetic imaging techniques used by manufacturers of magnetic storage devices seeking to increase the density of stored information.

* Optical technology - where we provide the national basis for optical radiation measurement and develop optical measurement systems for industrial and environmental needs. Our standards are used, for example, by the lighting industry to produce more efficient bulbs and by the photographic industry to assure uniform quality, so that when you buy a Kodak film anywhere in the world, you know it will produce the same color tone as the one you buy in the United States.


*******************

Article 825

In general, the technical programs of the division are excellent. The Atmospheric Chemistry Group generates important results in the area of chemical metrology. The efforts of this group have an extensive impact on setting environmental standards and on establishing methods to determine the sources of carbon in the atmosphere. The group is developing an understanding of atmospheric processes that will be used to determine emission standards for a variety of industries.

The Microanalysis Science Group has a strong technical program and functions effectively as a team. The group is known for its work on experimental electron microscopy and image analysis and quantification. The group has identified problems with the widely used standardless x-ray line analysis technique, which could have a significant impact on the way this technique is applied. The recent acquisition of an environmental scanning electron microscope is an excellent addition to the resources of the group. The group acquired an atomic force microscope (AFM) as recommended by the 1994 Assessment Panel, and this new equipment will complement the group's capability to perform scanning scattering microscopy. However, the new capacity to perform atomic force microscopy needs to be more forcefully directed toward addressing real-world industrial problems. Currently, the AFM is being used only as a research tool. It is not part of a program to develop new applications and enhanced capability, although that is the stated goal of the division in this area. Increased interaction with industry, especially in the area of semiconductor processing and fabrication, is required to establish a more focused and coherent AFM Program.

The division conducts world-class research in the area of laser- surface interactions. New nonlinear optical techniques were successfully applied to the problem of probing buried interfaces, and new studies of radical surface chemistry were initiated. A new titanium-sapphire laser system was acquired that should greatly enhance the effectiveness of the division's research in this area. The addition of a new investigator to the Surface Dynamical Processes Group, with new expertise and perspective, would serve to further enhance the effectiveness of this research.


*******************

Article 826

Since Wigner and Huntington in 1935 pointed out that a transformation from a molecular to atomic state is inevitable at high pressure, there have been extensive speculations on when and how this transformation would take place. The recent development of the diamond anvil technique have allowed experiments to be performed at pressure slightly lower than the atomic transition. Those experiments confirmed the existence of an molecular orientation transition which had been earlier computationally predicted by Ceperley at 1.5 Mbar. Extensive and highly accurate quantum Monte Carlo calculations on a variety of crystal structures now predict that the metallic transition will take place from a distorted molecular hexagonal structure into an atomic diamond lattice. For this and other pioneering science, David Ceperley was awarded the fifth Eugene Feenberg Memorial Silver Medal in 1994. David's PhD advisor and the third Feenberg awardee is Mal Kalos, Director of the CTC, himself a major user of several MetaCenter supercomputers.
Prediction of new Nanomaterials
Marvin L. Cohen (NAS) and Steven G. Louie (Dept. of Physics, UC Berkeley) have used MetaCenter computational resources (SDSC, PSC, NCSA Cray Research Y-MP and C90) to make numerous advances in computational materials science. Most recently, they have used both first-principles and tight-binding codes to examine the properties of carbon nanotubes and nanotubes composed of boron, carbon, and nitrogen. Carbon nanotubes-essentially rolled microsheets of graphite- are well known, thanks to the work of Sumio Iijima and colleagues at NEC. They have ctiameters on the order of 1-20 nm and are producible in the same carbon arc chambers used to produce fullerenes (also called "buckyballs"- assemblages of 60 or more carbon atoms in cage- like structures). They have interesting capillarity and electronic properties. Cohen, Louie and their colleagues have predicted the structure and properties of nanotubes made of boron nitride, which appear to be more stable and controllable in terms of their electronic properties. They have also predicted nanotubes of BC_2N, a boron- carbon-nitrogen compound, whose electronic properties are even more interesting: they should behave like nanoscale induction coils. Most exciting, the structures that were predicted computationally are now being produced experimentally in the lab of Alex Zettl at Berkeley, where their electronic properties can be confirmed.
Theory of High Temperature Superconductors
The Nobel Prize in Physics in 1987 was for the discovery of a new class of high temperature superconductors. Thousands of research papers have been written about these unique materials, but the battle is still raging over the fundamental mechanism that causes the superconducting transition at Tc 90K for the cuprate oxides such as YBA2CU307. David Pines (NAS and first Feenberg Medalist) and Philippe Monthoux (Department of Physics, UIUC) used the NCSA Cray Research Y- MP to carry out a strong coupling (Eliashberg) calculation of the normal state properties and Tc for the model experiment-based magnetic interaction between quasiparticles. They found that when the full structure of the quasiparticle interaction is taken into account, a superconducting transition into a d-wave planar pairing state occurs at Tc 90K for comparatively modest values of the coupling constant.


*******************

Article 827

2. We must improve the sensors and techniques used to inspect stockpiled weapons. For example, new nondestructive evaluation techniques, such as acoustic, x-ray, and neutron tomography, can reduce the number of weapon components that must be destructively tested. Other advanced sensors are being developed --- most with industrial collaboration-to enable continuous monitoring of key aging signatures within stockpiled weapons.

3. We must develop a better understanding of how aging affects the physical characteristics of a material and the resultant impact on weapon reliability and safety. Our pursuit of the "science of aging" entails activities such as molecular dynamics modeling on computers and atomic force microscopy to look at the effects of corrosion on an atomistic level. We are in the process of establishing an enhanced materials database (using surveillance and dismantlement data) and developing sophisticated computational techniques to better analyze these data.

By using the data from the enhanced surveillance program to predict component lifetimes, a more systematic refurbishment and "preventative maintenance" program --- rather than an expensive and high-production rate replacement program --- will be possible. These scientific efforts are the key to an affordable manufacturing capability in the production plants (discussed below).


*******************

Article 828

1. We must improve data bases on the performance of stockpiled that we can ascertain when observed behavior in aging weapons is anomalous. These activities include building a modern nonnuclear experimental data base for stockpiled weapons. Many of the nonnuclear experiments on the systems were done 10-15 years ago. Today, much better techniques are available. In addition to these new experiments we need to make existing archival data more accessible and useful to stockpile stewards.

2. We must improve the sensors and techniques used to inspect stockpiled weapons. For example, new nondestructive evaluation techniques, such as acoustic, x-ray, and neutron tomography, can reduce the number of weapon components that must be destructively tested. Other advanced sensors are being developed-- most with industrial collaboration--to enable continuous monitoring of key aging signatures within stockpiled weapons.

3. We must develop better understanding of how aging affects the physical characteristics of a material and the resultant impact on weapon reliability and safety. Our pursuit of the "science of aging" entails activities such as molecular dynamics modeling on computers and atomic force microscopy to look at the effects of corrosion on an atomistic level. We are in the process of establishing an enhanced materials database (using surveillance and dismantlement data) and developing sophisticated computational techniques to better analyze these data.

By using the data from the enhanced surveillance program to predict component lifetimes, a more systematic refurbishment and "preventative maintenance program--rather than an expensive and high production-rate replacement program--will be possible. The scientific efforts are the key to affordable manufacturing capability in the production plants (discussed below).


*******************

Article 829

Through BES-sponsored research, processes that reduce toxic and radioactive waste were discovered. The processes are used in application such as the removal of iron contaminants in the production of silicon wafers. These processes are now being commercialized by three companies, one of which was formed with financial support from the state of Illinois. To date, that company has 25 employees and annual revenues of $4 million.
- A new solder alloy was discovered as a result of BES-supported research that enables better and safer industrial soldering. This solder solved long-standing limitations of available soldering materials: lead -- which is workable but toxic; and tin-silver --which is not toxic but less workable.
- The Buckminsterfullerene is a new form of carbon that was developed and characterized as a result of research supported by BES. There is great excitement about the potential of the "Buckeyball", whose properties include improved absorbency and superconductivity. As profiled in a recent NOVA program on PBS, there are many small start- up companies racing to find applications and markets for the Buckyballs.These "victories" are significant because they exemplify the achievement of the better, faster, cheaper, cleaner objectives that BES strives for to enhance our energy security. They may not be as dramatic as some success stories. Research is similar to legislation in that you may do a lot of it, but only a small percentage makes the front page. But, this is how it works -- through thousands of insights, new directions, new phenomena, new principles, materials and processes that are the return on the Nation's energy research investment.


*******************

Article 830

Given the large contribution of high-tech products to Germany's exports and a perceived lack of competitiveness in key technology areas, the German government considers a more effective use of S&T resources crucial for Germany's economic future. While there were no substantial changes in German research and development (R&D) policy, significant initiatives were launched to facilitate technology transfer and industry/academia cooperation. This development was highlighted by the creation of a technology council, chaired by Chancellor Kohl, and a succession of events under an "innovation initiative."


As a part of this process, the Ministry of Research and Technology (BMFT) is targeting "technologies of the 21st century" as priority areas, including nanotechnology, adaptronics, optoelectronics, and artificial intelligence.


BMFT is assessing a demand-pulled approach based on these key technologies, rather than the former technology-pushed approach. The ministry pursues a strategy of closer involvement of industrial companies and associations in the program definition phase.


Research Minister Krueger established a "strategy circle" advisory board of top industrial and science community representatives. Committees were founded to define industrial or industry/academia collaborative R&D projects in key technology sectors and the future mission of the large national labs. In addition, three application-oriented committees on microelectronics, manufacturing, and chemistry were established. A recent BMFT-sponsored agreement by the four leading semiconductor chip manufacturers and users (Siemens, Daimler-Benz, IBM Deutschland, and Bosch) and the East German Thesys (partly owned by the American firm LSI-Logic) to develop jointly new production technologies for application-specific semiconductor chips (ASICS) is seen as the first practical success of the microelectronics circle.


*******************

Article 831

For example, BFRL's program to develop construction technology, guidelines, and performance standards to reduce losses from natural disasters is of high technical quality, but the assessment panel was unable to discern a guiding strategy for this work. The technical quality of MSEL's dental materials research is good, but the panel questioned whether the work addresses a critical need. Across the laboratories, instances were identified of the need for management decisions to better match goals and objectives with resources. Some groups, for example, are attempting to cover too many unrelated areas or have technical objectives that are unrealistic compared to resources. Also apparent was an occasional reluctance to turn promptly to new, practical problems. For example, the new atomic force microscope developed in MEL is being used solely as a research tool rather than being applied to critical industrial measurement problems. Similarly, ITL's Information Systems Engineering Division may be holding on to some programs past the point at which they could be successfully turned over to industry. In several instances the success of projects seems threatened because staff with critical knowledge are near retirement or particular staff skills are lacking. Renewing such skills should be an ongoing process through recruitment as well as continuing education and renewal of technical staff This concern is discussed in more detail below under "Resources." The Board emphasizes that the situations described in the two preceding paragraphs are the exception rather than the rule at NIST. Action by management can mitigate many such instances without additional resources. Specifically, if goals exceed the resources available to meet them, the goals can be modified, but must be modified with a view to external demands. Similarly, staff retirement is foreseeable, and recruitment of replacements must be aggressive and systematic. Good technical staff generally need training to become good managers, and greater emphasis on management training programs, much like those established in many industrial firms, could facilitate rapid improvement of managerial skills. At all levels of NIST, more value could be placed profitably on all aspects of management, e.g., establishing priorities; hiring, evaluating, and promoting staff; allocating resources; identifying and reaching out to customers; and increasing staff ownership of mission, priorities, and strategic plans. The report Setting Priorities and Measuring Results at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST, January 1994) describes how NIST sets priorities, evaluates performance, and measures impact. 

*******************

Article 832

* Another significant resource of the HSRC's is the 325 undergraduate and graduate students being supported and trained to be the tomorrow's environmental managers.

* Each HSRC is moving from bench, to pilot, to demonstration of innovative remediation technologies, and is at work demonstrating technologies to clean up Superfund sites. Accomplishments include the demonstration of research technologies at 12 Superfund sites around the country. Included among these are the demonstration of in-situ bioremediation of chlorinated solvents, the demonstration of nanoscale metal oxides to treat toxic chlorocarbons and organophosphorus compounds to form nontoxic products, and the use of poplar tree buffers to help keep toxic herbicides, pesticides and fertilizers out of surface and groundwater.

* The HSRCs have evolved as an integrated 5-center program, moving from the first joint sponsored Bioremediation Research Conference to the most recent Conference on Transcending University Barriers to Outreach and Technology Transfer. With each of these conferences, the HSRCs are leading by example in developing an integrated research and technology transfer program.



*******************

Article 833

We are also working to improve the "science" of enhanced surveillance so that we can better understand and predict the effects of aging on weapons. These efforts are the key to an affordable manufacturing capability because they enable a more systematic refurbishment and "preventative maintenance" program rather than an expensive and highproduction-rate replacement program when aging effects are found. Livermore is in the process of establishing an enhanced materials database (using surveillance and dismantlement data) and developing sophisticated computational techniques to better analyze these data. In addition, we are applying advanced techniques like scanning tunneling microscopes and atomic force microscopes to look at the effects of corrosion on an atomistic level.
Other advanced sensors and non-destructive techniques are also being developed--most with industrial collaboration--to enable continuous monitoring of key aging signatures within stockpiled weapons. As an example, we are working with several biomedical companies to develop endoscopic surgical tools and fiber optic visualization technologies. These technologies are being applied to inspect nuclear weapons parts and components in locations that are otherwise inaccessible.


*******************

Article 834

Livermore's responsibilities for the enduring stockpile include the B83 bomb, the W84 cruise missile and the W87 ICBM warhead. These are the only systems in the inventory with all the modern safety features, and they are expected to endure past their originally anticipated lifetimes. Significant effort is being expended on the surveillance, maintenance, and selective refurbishment of these systems.
As part of our archiving program, we are paying particular attention to these stockpile systems. In addition to archiving past data, we are developing a modern experimental database and computational understanding. Many of the non-nuclear experiments on the systems were done 10-15 years ago. Today, much better techniques are available: penetrating-radiography with enhanced sensitivity from a gamma-ray camera, high speed laser illuminated photography, and multi-beam Fabry-Perot velocity measurements. These new data and the understanding which results will form the basis of a joint LLNL/LANL revalidation of the safety, security and reliability of these important systems.Surveillance. We are also working to improve the "science" of enhanced surveillance so that we can better understand and predict the effects of aging on weapons. These efforts are the key to an affordable manufacturing capability because they enable a more systematic refurbishment and "preventative maintenance" program rather than an expensive and high production-rate replacement program when aging effects are found. Livermore is in the process of establishing an enhanced materials database (using surveillance and dismantlement data) and developing sophisticated computational techniques to better analyze these data. In addition, we are applying advanced techniques like scanning tunneling microscopes (STM) and atomic force microscopes (AFM) to look at the effects of corrosion on an atomistic level. Other advanced sensors and non-destructive techniques will attempt to evaluate weapon components in a more detailed and fundamental way.
Manufacturing. LLNL is working on several technologies to provide cost effective manufacturing capability to replace and refurbish aging weapon components. We are responsible for developing a pit-reuse capability which would permit the reuse of old plutonium components if necessary to fix a problem in the stockpile. In addition, we are developing a precision casting process for plutonium.

*******************

Article 835

As part of our archiving program, we are paying particular attention to these stockpile systems. In addition to archiving past data, we are developing a modern experimental database and computational understanding. Many of the nonnuclear experiments on the systems were done 10-15 years ago. Today, much better techniques are available: penetrating radiography with enhanced sensitivity from a gamma-ray camera, high speed laser illuminated photography, and multi-beam Fabry-Perot velocity measurements. These new data and the understanding which results will form the basis of a joint LLNL/LANL revalidation of the safety, security and reliability of these important systems.

Surveillance. We are also working to improve the "science" of enhanced surveillance so that we can better understand and predict the effects of aging on weapons. These efforts are the key to an affordable manufacturing capability because they enable a more systematic refurbishment and "preventative maintenance" program rather than an expensive and high production-rate replacement program when aging effects are found. Livermore is in the process of establishing an enhanced materials database. (using surveillance and dismantlement data) and developing sophisticated computational techniques to better analyze these data. In addition, we are applying advanced techniques like scanning tunneling microscopes (STM) and atomic force microscopes (AFM) to look at the effects of corrosion on an atomistic level. Other advanced sensors and non-destructive techniques will attempt to evaluate weapon components in a more detailed and fundamental way.

Manufacturing. LLNL is working on several technologies to provide cost effective manufacturing capability to replace and refurbish aging weapon components. We are responsible for developing a pit-reuse capability which would permit the reuse of old plutonium components if necessary to fix a problem in the stockpile. In addition" we are developing a precision casting process for plutonium. It would significantly reduce costs and the waste generated. This process, which would be transferred to LANL for full implementation, can be applied to rebuild pits destroyed in the current surveillance program. We are also developing precision casting and spinforming techniques to replace the current methods of rebuilding uranium parts destroyed in the surveillance program. These efforts draw on the uranium capability developed in the LLNL Uranium AVLIS program.


*******************

Article 836

Examples of joint projects with affiliates are: (1) a project to automate magnetic property measurements between Purdue University and Quantum Design and (2) a project between Notre Dame University and Superconductive Components, Inc. to develop a high temperature superconductor with superior properties for magnetic bearing applications. In addition, Purdue University is seeking industry partners for a newly patented process developed under MISCON for producing tubular superconductive tubes to shield sensitive electronic equipment from electromagnetic interference. These interactions keep all participants aware of industry's needs for new knowledge and the current state of commercial technology in high-Tc superconductivity and provide high leverage in introducing MISCON-developed technologies into the marketplace. MISCON contributed important new materials processing technologies and new understandings of transport behavior in high-Tc superconductors. The following ten "first-time" achievements exemplify the twenty-one (21) identified as "highly significant" in 1994:
o A.E. Miller and S. Bandyopadhyay, University of Notre Dame, demonstrated that a periodic array of Pb quantum dots exhibits quantum confinement.
o M.W. McElfresh and E.P. Kvam, Purdue University, showed that the theoretically-predicted dimensional crossover field sensitively depends on the crystallographic anisotropy of YBCO.
o J.M. Honig and J. Spalek, Purdue University, developed a theoretical model that predicts the change in transition temperature with the number of conducting planes.
o J. Betanabhatla and J.R. Hardy, University of Nebraska, and R.R. Berliner, University of Missouri, discovered superconductivity for the first time in a barium bismuth oxide phase.
o K.P. Trumble, K.J. Bowman and M.W. McElfresh, Purdue University, filed for a patent on silver-clad BSCCO tubes produced by centrifugal slip casting for magnetic shielding applications.


*******************

Article 837

The need for infusing new technology, especially from the commercial sector is critical to lowering costs of government operations. As the Department of Defense has also discovered, the product life-cycles for commercial technologies are shorter than that of government procurements. Ifs no wonder that NASA often finds itself playing catch-up. For example, it wasn't until 1990 that microprocessors were first used as flight critical elements on the Shuttle in the Extended Duration Orbiter program It now takes years to got NASA certification for approved parts and vendors. A 30-month lead time is a common requirement for parts from space-qualified vendors. Getting faster, cheaper, and better space missions must address the technologies, parts, components and paperwork that are required by those missions.

The National Space Society has called for supporting key enabling technologies for space development that at present have limited commercial markets. Example technologies for a lead NASA role include life support systems and non-terrestrial material processing. Other technologies, such as space nuclear power, may be pursued by NASA alone or in cooperation with other agencies. 6 Finally, some technologies, are still in a generic, pre-competitive state where NASA may be only one potential user among many. An example of this situation is molecular manufacturing in which devices are built by the manipulation of individual atoms to precise specifications.

It is not enough that a key enabling space technology exist or that it be demonstrated. The knowledge of how to use it must be present in industry and available to new firms. Large aerospace firms maintain proprietary databases of space-qualified parts, components, and materials that they have learned to use through hard and expensive experience. These databases are competitive advantages to the firm that have them, but they also constitute a barrier to lowering costs and encouraging new firms to compete. Like the secrets of a medieval guild, the practical application of space technology remains guarded intellectual property. We have nothing against private firms developing and protecting their intellectual property, but we would like to see greater efforts in organizing, qualifying, and publishing the results of government technology demonstrations. 6 Space nuclear power is be vital for long-term, deep space missions by robots or humans but the Department of Energy seems to be abandoning its efforts in this area and there are few (legal) commercial markets for this technology.


*******************

Article 838

While Pluto is 50 times farther away than Mars in distance, it can be only 7 times farther away in time. The catch here is that we do not know how to build a constant boost ship but there is no law of physics that says we cannot. There is no shortage of interesting ideas on approaches to building high speed interplanetary vehicles, such as using powerful laser beams, surplus nuclear explosives, or even manufactured antimatter in minute quantities.8 The hydrogen/oxygen engines of the Space Shuttle are impressive but they need not be the last word in space propulsion.
-7- Another exciting area of technical potential is that of nanotechnology.9 In the near term, micromachine technology may allow the building an interplanetary spacecraft at the size of a small desk. "Molecular manufacturing" or the precise manipulation of matter at the level of individual atoms may allow us to go further and that same interplanetary spacecraft could shrink to the size of a laptop computer on that desk. Molecular manufacturing is similar in many respects to molecular biology. In cells, molecular machines make biological components. In molecular manufacturing, molecular machines will make engineering components. Systems to guide molecular level assembly and the precise control of chemical reactions can help minimize waste and defects, producing systems of uniquely high quality. This car. mean aerospace structures with over 70 times the strength-to-weight ratio of aluminum. It can mean being able to place the computing power of a billion modern workstations in a desktop package - while producing less waste heat than a light bulb.
The beginning of the industrial revolution was characterized by massive, wasteful, inflexible machines. Old technology did not conserve resources but consumed them, creating pollution along the way. Today, technologies are available which can create the things we need with dramatically fewer resources and waste. The next century could see the flowering of a new manufacturing revolution, symbolized by tiny, efficient, and intelligent machines traveling outward from the Earth to explore new worlds. Hopefully. with humanity close behind.
Summary


*******************

Article 839

Users of the Electron Microscopy Center for Materials Research at Argonne National Laboratory probe changes in material structure and chemistry down to the atomic level. The Center combines real-time studies of material behavior under controlled conditions of temperature, stress and irradiation with the possibility ofsimultaneous structural and chemical analyses. Seven transmission electron microscopes offer a variety of analytical techniques. Two of the microscopes interface directly to ion accelerators, providing the premier facilities in the Western Hemisphere for in-situ microstructural studies of irradiation effects.
The Shared Research Equipment User Facility at Oak Ridge National Laboratory has five analytical electron microscopes, three atom-probe field-ion microscopes, three mechanical properties microprobes, and an atomic force microscope. These instruments are optimized for the analytical evaluation of structure, composition, and mechanical properties on a microscopic scale and the results are used to aid in the development of improved metals, ceramics and polymers. Since its inception in 1978, over 300 external users have participated in the Oak Ridge Facility.
The fifth Collaborative Research Center is the Materials Preparation Center at Ames Laboratory. It provides ultrahigh purity and specialty materials and unique characterization services, not commercially available in the U.S. Since its formation in 1981, the Center has responded to approximately 2,000 requests. In 1994, a typical year, almost half the requests came from U.S. industry. Preparations include brain tumor and prostate cancer treatment, lead- free solder, low-loss fiber optics, and magnetic refrigerators. Information services help about 800 inquirers per year obtain difficult-tofind research and development materials, and "The High-Tc Update," a 2,600-subscriber newsletter provides rapid dissemination of scientific breakthroughs in the field of superconductors.
In closing, I want to thank you for the opportunity to address the DOE budget request for the Scientific Facilities Initiative. This Initiative is a cost effective means of keeping our Nation at the forefront of science and technology.


*******************

Article 840

The available funds from the Science Facilities Initiative will allow for more beam hours of development for the new facility, thus speeding up the commissioning of the facility for research use. In addition, the funds will allow for more intense work to be carded out on development of new beam species, thereby expanding the scope of the research program to more areas of interest to the users. Funds will also be used to speed up the commissioning of some of the detector systems that are needed by the users to make the most efficient use of the new beams. SHARED RESEARCH EQUIPMENT (SHARE)
The Shared Research Equipment (SHARE) User Facility provides U.S. academic, industrial, and government laboratory users with no-charge access to state-of-theart microanalytical facilities for materials science studies. The SHARE Facility centers on five analytical electron microscopes, three atom-probe field-ion microscopes, three mechanical properties microprobes, and an atomic force microscope. These instruments are optimized for the analytical evaluation of structure, composition, and mechanical properties on a microscopic scales, and the results are used to aid in the development of improved metals, ceramics, and polymers. Since its inception in 1978, over 300 external users have participated in the SHARE User Program. Proprietary research can be performed at a costrecovery rate.
Studies conducted with the analytical electron microscopes at the SHARE User Facility have resulted in important scientific advances leading to improvements in the properties of a variety of materials. By characterizing the structure and composition of regions only one millionth of an inch in diameter in stainless steels, ORNL scientists were able to make minor changes in the composition and processing of the steel that greatly improved the steel's strength at high temperature, a development that should lead to more efficient steam generators. Another series of studies on stainless steels has determined that chemical segregation in regions only a few millionths of an inch wide is responsible for the dramatic changes in mechanical and corrosion properties that can occur tocomponents in the cores of commercial nuclear reactors. Cornell University, the University of Minnesota, and Stevens Institute of Technology have collaborated with ORNL to measure compositions of amorphous films less than a millionth of an inch thick between the crystal grains of ceramics. A basic understanding of these films is required to develop improved ceramic materials that are widely used at very high temperatures. Development of improved catalysts for automobile emission systems is in progress under a cooperative research and development agreement with General Motors AC-Delco Systems. 

*******************

Article 841

The available funds from the Science Facilities Initiative will allow for more beam hours of development for the new facility, thus speeding up the commissioning of the facility for research use. In addition, the funds will allow for more intense work to be carried out on development of new beam species, thereby expanding the scope of the research program to more areas of interest to the users. Funds will also be used to speed up the commissioning of some of the detector systems that are needed by the users to make the most efficient use of the new beams.

SHARED RESEARCH EQUIPMENT (SHARE)

The Shared Research Equipment (SHARE) User Facility provides U.S. academic, industrial, and government laboratory users with no-charge access to state-of-the-art microanalytical facilities for materials science studies. The SHARE Facility centers on five analytical electron microscopes, three atom-probe field-ion microscopes, three mechanical properties microprobes, and an atomic force microscope. These instruments are optimized for the analytical evaluation of structure, composition, and mechanical properties on a microscopic scales, and the results are used to aid in the development of improved metals, ceramics, and polymers. Since its inception in 1978, over 300 external users have participated in the SHARE User Program. Proprietary research can be performed at a costrecovery rate.

Studies conducted with the analytical electron microscopes at the SHARE User Facility have resulted in important scientific advances leading to improvements in the properties of a variety of materials. By characterizing the structure and composition of regions only one millionth of an inch in diameter in stainless steels, ORNL scientists were able to make minor changes in the composition and processing of the steel that greatly improved the steel's strength at high temperature, a development that should lead to more efficient steam generators. Another' series of studies on stainless steels has determined that chemical segregation in regions only a few millionths of an inch wide is responsible for the dramatic changes in mechanical and corrosion properties that can occur to components in the cores of commercial nuclear reactors. 

*******************

Article 842

Users of the Electron Microscopy Center for Materials Research at Argonne National Laboratory probe changes in material structure and chemistry down to the atomic level. The Center combines real-time studies of material behavior under controlled conditions of temperature, stress and irradiation with the possibility of simultaneous structural and chemical analyses. Seven transmission electron microscopes offer a variety of analytical techniques. Two of the microscopes interface directly to ion accelerators, providing the premier facilities in the Western Hemisphere for in-situ microstructural studies of irradiation effects.

The Shared Research Equipment User Facility at Oak Ridge National Laboratory has five analytical electron microscopes, three atom-probe field-ion microscopes, three mechanical properties microprobes, and an atomic force microscope. These instruments are optimized for the analytical evaluation of structure, composition, and mechanical properties on a microscopic scale and the results are used to aid in the development of improved metals, ceramics and polymers. Since its inception in 1978, over 300 external users have participated in the Oak Ridge Facility.

The fifth Collaborative Research Center is the Materials Preparation Center at Ames Laboratory. It provides ultrahigh purity and specialty materials and unique characterization services, not commercially available in the U.S. Since its formation in 1981, the Center has responded to approximately 2,000 requests. In 1994, a typical year, almost half the requests came from U.S. industry. Preparations include brain tumor and prostate cancer treatment, lead- free solder, low-loss fiber optics, and magnetic refrigerators. Information services help about 800 inquirers per year obtain difficult-to-find research and development materials, and "The High-Tc Update," a 2,600-subscriber newsletter provides rapid dissemination of scientific breakthroughs in the field of superconductors.



*******************

Article 843

A major component of the information revolution will be the continued evolution of semiconductor and magnetic storage devices. Existing technologies for production and characterization of those devices are approaching ultimate limits imposed by material properties and physical laws. NIST has established the National Semiconductor Metrology Program to address problems of fundamental metrology which must be solved in order for semiconductor industries to meet the demands of the 21st century.

As device miniaturization progresses toward 2015, we will soon need to build and characterize devices whose;typical size is just a few atomic diameters. There currently are profound limitations to our ability to measure, fabricate, characterize, and understand atomic scale devices. NIST has begun a new nanotechnology initiative specifically to enhance our,current capabilities to make and study nano-structured materials.

Because of very rapid advances in the field of biotechnology, the real industrial need for critical new measurements and standards is growing faster than are the underlying measurement technologies. To provide the infrastructural support to enable these technologies to grow, we have initiated a program in Biotechnology.

As social pressures increase to monitor or mediate the long term effects resulting from increasing environmental stress of the growing human population, it is essential to provide substantially improved measurement technologies with sufficient sensitivity, accuracy, and reliability that definitive studies can be performed. Long-reaching policy decisions concerning use of precious resources must not be made on the basis of conflicting and inadequate experimental data. To address these crucial measurement needs, we have initiated a program in Environmental Technology.


*******************

Article 844

To prevent work-related hazards, NIOSH conducts applied research with a corps of occupational safety and health professionals operating in multidisciplinary teams comprised of engineers, epidemiologists, industrial hygienists, physicians, and toxicologists. Intramural efforts are complemented by grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements to form a comprehensive and integrated program consisting of four components: Identification of hazards, research on causes and prevention of occupational injuries and illnesses, dissemination of research findings and recommendations, and training of those involved in preventing disease and injury at work.


The request includes an increase of $5,000,000 for intramural research. Additional support will be provided for research programs for the prevention of safety and work-related health problems. Prevention of occupational disease ultimately depends on the recognition of an association between workplace exposure and human health response. The willingness of regulators, employers, and workers to control the exposure depends on how scientifically credible the case for casualty is made. Recognition of causal associations is based on an intricate interplay of field and laboratory evidence. Increased funding in this area will enable NIOSH to: Clarify relationships between complex mixtures of workplace exposures and human health effects; develop refined methods for defining biologically relevant indices of exposures and human health response as a result of enhancement in particle characterization and molecular biology; simulate actual worksite conditions which will enable NIOSH to identify critical factors associated with injury and hazardous exposures and to develop interventions that address these critical factors; and build a protective technologies applied research program in the area of microsensors and nanosensors, devices which combine sophisticated capability for sensing dangerous environments, substance, and conditions.


The Committee has been especially pleased with the partnership between NIOSH and the State of Alaskas Department of Health and Social Services as it seeks to reduce workplace injury and fatality, especially in the fishing and timber industries. Its work has served as a model for gauging effectiveness of prevention and intervention strategies in workplace injury, and has offered resources where there were none in the past. The partnership is a model which CDC should consider replicating in other areas of the country, and one which should be maintained in Alaska for a period sufficient to give the State of Alaska the capacity to continue the work on its own.



*******************

Article 845

Madame Chair, I am taking the time to testify before you today for one simple reason -- EPSCOR works. Nebraska received its first NSF-EPSCOR funding just this year, but it is already clear that our program can make a significant impact on the competitiveness of Nebraska researchers. We have 41 faculty members at four universities participating in three research clusters. In our first year, these scientists developed over 80 research proposals requesting over $29 million dollars. The decisions on some of those proposals are not yet known but over six million dollars have already been approved. The statewide office and committee has participated or assisted in the development of another 47 proposals from additional non-cluster faculty requesting over $14 million. EPSCOR has provided a mechanism and opportunity to pursue a wider range and greater number of research resources. We fully expect to increase our levels of R&D support as a result.

Our EPSCOR program has established exciting research projects in three different areas including materials research on nanostructured and complex systems, metallobiochemistry, and behavioral biology. The materials research cluster seeks to understand materials with novel properties and unusually complex atomic structures that will be increasing important --- in high performance materials for emerging technologies. The metallobiochemistry group is focused on understanding the chemistry of inorganic elements that play a major role in the function of protein catalysts in a wide range of biochemical systems important in biotechnology, medicine and agriculture. The behavioral biology group combines expertise of biologists and experimental psychologists to bridge an interdisciplinary gap in our knowledge about things such as how animals detect and respond to environmental change. We expect that scientists in these three groups will develop nationally competitive and internationally recognized research programs with the assistance of EPSCOR funding.

Beyond the opportunity to develop competitive research programs and to obtain important equipment and infrastructure support for research, EPSCOR is making other significant impacts on Nebraska's research efforts. One result has been the fostering of interactions and collaborations among scientists on different campuses. We are building programs that are stronger than could be supported by a single campus and thus are increasing the opportunities for education and human resource development for students in Nebraska. Nebraska- EPSCoR has also fostered interactions among academic, government and industrial leaders to examine how Nebraska should proceed with regard to a policy and plan for research in the state. Last December we sponsored a statewide conference entitled"Research Linkages: Visions for Science and Technology in Nebraska" that initiated a dialogue among academic, economic development and industrial interests that is continuing and should lead to important infrastructure changes in the states' approach to R&D.


*******************

Article 846

Perhaps the most important aspect of this explosion is that these extraordinarily powerful machines are being connected together in a coherent global web of networks using satellites, cellular and other wireless systems, local area networks, national fiber optic systems and undersea fiber optic connections. Connected to this global "neural system" is millions of data bases -- vast amounts of usable Information -- that by the turn of the century will be accessible anywhere to anyone with the right equipment. The metabolisms of whole societies will Increase significantly during this period as the amount of information doubles many times over.

This explosion in basic computing capability has spawned a number of technologies that will also have profound implications. Molecular nanotechnology is one of the most Intriguing. From the beginning of time, we have always manufactured things from the top down. We started with something larger, like a tree, and shaped that raw material into the products we use. Nanotech will, sometime soon after the turn of the century, begin to produce usable products that are the result of "bottom-up" manufacturing that uses molecular-sized machines that move Individual atoms Into predetermined configurations that have been programmed by computer programs. This process will produce no waste and therefore no negative by-products. Raw feed stock, like crude oil, could be converted directly into very complex devices made out of diamond -- for diamond is nothing more than the carbon atoms of crude oil configured In another way.

That means that things like aircraft engines could, within a couple of decades be manufactured by pumping a slurry of raw materials -- like crude oil -- into a tank and throwing a switch that activates an invisible little machine at the bottom. The nanomachine would, at the rate of billions per minute, replicate itself and, when there were enough of them, they would switch over to building, atom-by-atom the jet engine. In about 20 minutes the whole thing would be complete -- and perfect. There would be no flaws In the crystalline structure. The cost of manufacturing would be about the cost of the feed stock -- in this case maybe 10 barrels of oil or, at today's prices, $150.



*******************

Article 847

* Textile industry. The U.S. textile industry has organized AMTEX, a consortium of textile companies, to work collaboratively with the Department of Energy laboratories. Their first project will be to develop the modeling and simulation capabilities to achieve what they call demand-activated manufacturing. This will require modeling the entire fiber-to-garment production-to-distribution sequence. Los Alamos is playing a major role in this modeling effort.

* Electronics industry. Companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Texas Instruments, and Motorola have shown interest in modeling processing operations and simulating the performance of electronic devices. A current Office of Technology Assessment study assisted by private industry is examining the role that the federal laboratories could play in this area in conjunction with the semiconductor industry's technology road map. We are also working with researchers at IBM in conducting atomistic and electronic calculations on nanostructure quantum devices.

* Automotive industry. Four of the Department of Energy laboratories are working with the Big Three automotive companies on a broad array of modeling, simulation and calculational problems. Los Alamos has perfected one of its computational fluid dynamics codes, KIVA, to model the combustion process to assist in engine design. We are currently working with General Motors on modeling an improved, cleaner two-cycle gasoline engine.


*******************

Article 848

* Textile industry. The U.S. textile industry has organized AMTEX, a consortium of textile companies, to work collaboratively with the Department of Energy laboratories. Their first project will be to develop the modeling and simulation capabilities to achieve what they call demand-activated manufacturing. This will require modeling the entire fiber-to-garment production-to-distribution sequence. Los Alamos is playing a major role in this modeling effort.

* Electronics industry. Companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Texas Instruments, and Motorola have shown interest in modeling processing operations and simulating the performance of electronic devices. A current Office of Technology Assessment study assisted by private industry is examining the role that the federal laboratories could play in this area in conjunction with the semiconductor industry's technology road map. We are also working with researchers at IBM in conducting atomistic and electronic calculations on nanostructure quantum devices.

* Automotive industry. Four of the Department of Energy laboratories are working with the Big Three automotive companies on a broad array of modeling, simulation and calculational problems. Los Alamos has perfected one of its computational fluid dynamics codes, KIVA, to model the combustion process to assist in engine design. We are currently working with General Motors on modeling an improved, cleaner two-cycle gasoline engine.



*******************

Article 849

WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   AUSUBEL, JESSE H. (Fellow, Science and Public Policy, Rockefeller University)
   BANKS, R. DARRYL (Director, Program on Technology and the Environment, World Resources Institute (WRI))
   DREXLER, K. ERIC (Chairman, Foresight Institute; Research Fellow, Institute for Molecular Manufacturing)
   WEINBERG, CARL J. (Manager, R&D, Pacific Gas and Electric Co)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Issues involved in developing environmental technologies; summary of WRI report on Federal policy options for promoting the development of environmentally critical technologies; description of molecular nanotechnology, including research activities; overview of technology developments to improve energy efficiency.
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   Environmental technologies dev status and issues


*******************

Article 850

Some of the areas in the report are directly related to the Department of Energys energy and environment missions. Others such as micro- and nanofabrication, optoelectronics, artificially structured materials, and advanced synthesis and processing techniques are not so clearly related to these missions. However, the Departments investments in multidisciplinary basic research at its national laboratories and their unique user facilities provide a foundation for collaborations with industry and universities to explore technology applications beyond the energy and environment missions. Technology research will require many of the same conceptual and instrumental tools now used in scientific research. In the early stages of this effort the coupling between fundamental research and applications research will be close, sometimes indistinguishable, thus the name, technology research.


A good example of such research is nanoscale materials. Advances in computing and electronics have been driven by the ability of the semiconductor industry to pack silicon chips with more circuits made of smaller features. The limiting factors have been the properties of the materials used and the processes to assemble the materials. Currently the industry can write micron-sized features. Advanced lithography technology would reduce these by a factor of 10. Nanoscale materials would be 1,000 times smaller. Assembling and connecting such features requires the ability to move materials essentially an atom at a time. Thin films made of many layers, each an atom or two thick, could be used for batteries or hydrogen storage. We can make such features in the laboratory now but not always reproducibly. An economically competitive product will require a fundamental understanding of the behavior of materials at such small dimensions, and breakthroughs in the production techniques. Carrying out this research will require unique facilities and a coordinated research program in physics, chemistry, and engineering managed with an ultimate view toward the applications.


The DOE national laboratories have the facilities, the human resources, and the tradition of serving national needs that can be brought to bear on such problems. As a result, the Committee directs the Department to establish a new technology research program. The first goal of the program is support of long-term technology research at the DOE national laboratories. Industrial participation in these programs is expected through advisory committees and boards, exchange of scientists or contribution of funding, equipment, or materials. Due to the long-range investment horizon of this research, the Department should take a flexible approach to the levels and types of industrial participation. This research would explore scientific discoveries with an emphasis on their broad application for industrial products and processes. It is understood that the payoff from this research may occur in a 10- to 15-year timeframe.


*******************

Article 851

The Committee recommends $143,036,000, an increase of $81,000,000. $60,000,000 is only for continued development of X-ray lithography technology. An additional $10,000,000 is only for the first year of a new, five-year national laboratory/university/industry initiative designed to foster research into X-ray lithography as a method for advanced integrated circuit production with submicron to nanometer scale definition. This initiative would take advantage of the construction of a new synchrotron radiation source producing X-rays in the spectrum ideal for this activity. The initiative would provide specific X-ray beamlines for studying novel materials and nanostructures, assessing optical component performance and evaluating advanced lithographic techniques. It would also establish an in-house capability at the facility for nanostructure fabrication and related synthesis and processing activities. This is a critical research area for the future of our nations semiconductor industry, and therefore the Committee provides $10,000,000 for the first year of this five-year initiative. An additional $5,000,000 is available only for metal matrix composite and advanced ceramic materials as described in the House Armed Services Committee report accompanying its 1992 bill. Finally, an additional $6,000,000 is only for establishment of an Advanced Materials Research and Development Center at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts. Within the amount originally budgeted by DARPA for materials research, the Committee also directs DARPA to assume any costs for the Balanced Technology Initiative project on millimeter wave guidance; although no funds were requested by BTI in fiscal year 1992 for this project, flight tests in 1991 may cause unanticipated costs to rise.



*******************

Article 852

Materials and Electronics Technology


The Committee recommends $143,036,000, an increase of $81,000,000. $60,000,000 is only for continued development of X-ray lithography technology. An additional $10,000,000 is only for the first year of a new, five-year national laboratory/university/industry initiative designed to foster research into X-ray lithography as a method for advanced integrated circuit production with submicron to nanometer scale definition. This initiative would take advantage of the construction of a new synchrotron radiation source producing X-rays in the spectrum ideal for this activity. The initiative would provide specific X-ray beamlines for studying novel materials and nanostructures, assessing optical component performance and evaluating advanced lithographic techniques. It would also establish an in-house capability at the facility for nanostructure fabrication and related synthesis and processing activities. This is a critical research area for the future of our nations semiconductor industry, and therefore the Committee provides $10,000,000 for the first year of this five-year initiative. An additional $5,000,000 is available only for metal matrix composite and advanced ceramic materials as described in the House Armed Services Committee report accompanying its 1992 bill. Finally, an additional $6,000,000 is only for establishment of an Advanced Materials Research and Development Center at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts. Within the amount originally budgeted by DARPA for materials research, the Committee also directs DARPA to assume any costs for the Balanced Technology Initiative project on millimeter wave guidance; although no funds were requested by BTI in fiscal year 1992 for this project, flight tests in 1991 may cause unanticipated costs to rise.


*******************

Article 853

The committee is now aware of additional lithography methodologies being considered by other research efforts that could achieve even greater microchip size reductions goals if successful.


The committee is also aware of a new national laboratory/ university/industrial initiative for research into x-ray lithography as a method for advanced integrated circuit production with submicron to nanometer scale definition. This initiative would take advantage of the construction of a new synchrotron radiation source producing x-rays in the spectrum ideal for this activity. This initiative would provide specific x-ray beamlines for studying novel materials and nanostructures, assessing optical component performance and evaluating advanced lithographic techniques. It would also establish an in-house capability at the facility for nanostructure fabrication and related synthesis and processing activities. This is a critical research area for the future of our nations semiconductor industry. Therefore, the committee recommends an authorization of $10 million to the Defense Advanced Projects Agency (DARPA) for this five year initiative.


The committee recognizes the efforts by the Naval Air Systems Command and the Naval Research Laboratory as lead agents for DARPA in the establishment of the Defense Advanced Lithography program (DALP) and directs DARPA to initiate appropriate planning for incrementally funded multi-year efforts (such as the Advanced Mask Center) and to balance the program between competing approaches with a focus on demonstrating the technology in defense systems as it progresses. This planning should accelerate future contract efforts and help DARPA and the Department of Defense plan for funding this program within its core program. The committee directs the Secretary of Defense to furnish a plan to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives for incorporating DALP in the defense budget beginning in fiscal year 1993.



*******************

Article 854

$400,000 for the Second Harvest Food Bank of Middle Tennessee in Nashville, Tennessee for the expansion of its distribution center;

$300,000 for the Chattanooga African American Chamber of Commerce, Tennessee to construct the Martin Luther King Business Solutions Center;

$600,000 for the Carroll County Watershed Authority in Carroll County, Tennessee for land acquisition;

$200,000 for the Big South Fork Visitors Center in Cumberland County, Tennessee to develop new visitors facilities;

$500,000 for Technology 2020 in Oak Ridge, Tennessee to support the East Tennessee Nanotechnology Initiative;

$250,000 for Smith County, Tennessee for construction and infrastructure improvements to the Health, Senior, and Education complex;

$400,000 for the Dallas Women's Museum in Dallas, Texas to conduct renovations;

$200,000 for the Houston Hispanic Forum of Houston, Texas to provide the historic preservation and renovation of the Houston Light Guard Armory into the Hispanic Cultural and Educational Center;

$200,000 for Polk County, Texas to restore the Polk County Annex;

$200,000 to the Arlington Chamber of Commerce in Arlington, Texas to establish the Arlington Entrepreneur Center;


*******************

Article 855

So very often people say, well, what happened to AI? It's already deeply embedded in our economic infrastructure. But when it really achieves human levels of intelligence, and by 2030, $1,000 of computation will be 1,000 times more powerful than the human brain, it will be quite transformative. 

But it is going to -- what it's going to transform what is the nature of what it is to be human. These nanobots will keep us healthy from inside. They'll go inside our brains. (For instance ?), one application will be to provide full-immersion virtual reality from within the nervous system. You want to go to virtual reality; the nanobot (shut down ?); the signal's coming from your -- (inaudible) -- senses. Replace them with the signals you would be receiving if you were in the virtual environment. And then your brain feels like it's in the virtual environment, and you can go there by yourself or with someone else. (Laughter.)

Design of virtual reality environments will be a new art form. But most importantly, it will extend human intelligence -- our memory, our cognitive ability, our pattern recognition facilities.

And I'll leave you with one last thought. All of this has already -- this is not a new story. We're already gone beyond human limitations. We are the species that seeks to go beyond our limitations. We didn't stay on the ground; we didn't stay on the planet; and we're not staying with the limitations of our biology. And when our genes evolved, it was not in the interests of the species for people to live past child-rearing; that only meant like 28. And human life expectancy was in the 20s 10,000 years ago. It was only 37 in 1800. Sanitation, antibiotics, a few other things have pushed it to 80.

When we have this sort of full mastery of biotechnology, we will extend it dramatically. And it's only 10 or 15 years from now. That will be a bridge to the full blossoming of the nanotechnology revolution, where we can go beyond biology, have these nanobots keep us healthy from inside.

So if you can stay healthy the old fashioned way for a few more years, we may get to experience the remarkable century ahead.



*******************

Article 856

Research and Related Activities

The conference agreement includes $4,387,520,000 for the Research and Related Activities account, instead of $4,377,520,000 as proposed by the House and $4,345,213,000 as proposed by the Senate.

The conference agreement includes language allowing funds under this heading to be available for polar icebreaking services. The conferees expect the NSF to reimburse the United States Coast Guard for such services pursuant to a memorandum of agreement. The conference agreement includes, by reference, language in the House report regarding the submission of a report on alternatives for long-term icebreaking needs and future options for supporting the United States presence in the Antarctic.

The conferees agree that funding for the Children's Research Initiative research centers program shall continue at least at the fiscal year 2005 level. The conferees commend NSF for its Silicon Nanoelectronics and Beyond program and its partnership with the Nanoelectronics Research Initiative, which involves the sponsorship of research in the areas of information technology and electronics. The conferees encourage NSF to continue its support for such research in fiscal year 2006 at the same level as fiscal year 2005. major research equipment and facilities construction

The conference agreement includes $193,350,000 for the Major Research Equipment and Facilities Construction (MREFC) account, as proposed by the House and Senate. In addition, the conferees are aware that unobligated balances of at least $14,880,000 are available from fiscal year 2005, resulting in a total funding availability of $208,230,000 under this account. The conferees agree to the following distribution of available resources, which fully funds all requested MREFC projects for fiscal year 2006:


*******************

Article 857

Potential of Nanotechnology

"Nanotechnology" touches upon a broad array of disciplines, including chemistry, biology, physics, computational science, and engineering. And like information technology, nanotechnology has the potential to impact virtually every industry, from aerospace and energy to healthcare and agriculture. Based on the ability to see, measure, and manipulate matter at the scale of atoms and molecules, nanotechnology was born, in many ways, with the advent of atomic force microscopy in the mid-1980s. Today many industries such as those based on semiconductors and chemicals already are creating products with enhanced performance based on components and materials with nanosized features.

Nanotechnology today reminds me very much of the early days of the semiconductor industry. The new interdisciplinary relationships being forged and the sense of excitement over future possibilities are very reminiscent of that earlier period. As with semiconductors, future application of nanotechnology based on evolving research could have significant impact throughout the world. Examples where nanotechnology has the potential to vastly improve standards of living in industrialized and developing nations include: medical applications, clean water, and energy. In our report, we highlight some key research in these areas. In medical applications, for example, nanotechnology has made possible the creation of a synthetic bone replacement material that is highly biocompatible and allows bones to heal faster and more completely than the materials that are used today. In the area of energy efficiency, researchers at Sandia Laboratories have demonstrated a light source that mixes different sized "quantum dots" to create high-efficiency white "light emitting diodes" that use about one-tenth as much energy as an incandescent bulb and that could reduce by more than half the amount of electricity used for lighting nationwide. Finally, researchers at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory are nanoengineering membrane systems that can target and remove contaminants in water, while reducing treatment costs by at least half compared to conventional technologies. Low-cost clean water technologies have obvious application in remediation of contaminated groundwater and treating industrial waste, as well as significant potential to help improve public health in developing nations.

The early recognition of the broad range of useful and powerful nanotechnology applications led to the formal establishment of a National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) in Fiscal Year (FY) 2001. Due to its potential to promote innovation and economic benefits, to address the needs of the Federal agencies, as well as to strengthen the position of the United States as a leader in science and technology, the Administration has identified nanotechnology as a top research and development (R&D) priority for the past several years.

*******************

Article 858

For the Bayh-Dole Act to continue to be successful in stimulating further innovations, patents must provide significant disincentives to would-be infringers. If patent law is strong, then technology transfer can flourish, resulting in profound and positive impact on the health, safety and welfare of our country and worldwide.

If patent law is weakened, then technology transfer suffers, as do U.S. universities, companies that depend on university research and the public. In 1980, when the Bayh-Dole Act passed, approximately 25 U.S. universities had technology transfer offices. No uniform federal patent policy existed and federally funded discoveries were rarely patented and commercialized.

Today more than 230 U.S. universities have technology transfer offices and universities are recipients of approximately 4 percent of U.S. patents issued. Today's list of university inventions is indeed impressive. The list includes Leustatin, a chemotherapy drug from the Brigham Young University, a lithography system to enable the manufacturing of nano devices from the University of Texas, Austin, an effective aneurysm treatment from the University of California, Los Angeles.

In the past two decades, intellectual property assets have become vital to the performance of the U.S. economy. Since 1992, the volume of patent applications in the PTO has more than doubled to 400,000 applications annually. In 2005 the PTO issued more patents than it did during the first four decades of American history, although because of recent administrative and fiscal strains the backlog of patent applications has grown to 500,000 and continues to grow.


*******************

Article 859

The Committee is aware of studies currently underway to review the Nation's icebreaking needs and to examine options for supporting the presence the United States has maintained in the Antarctic for the past four decades. The Committee directs NSF to immediately inform the Committee when the results and recommendations from these studies become available. The Committee anticipates a preliminary report on options for meeting long-term icebreaking needs from the National Academies in September. No later than December 31, 2005, the Committee expects a report from the Office of Polar Programs advisory committee outlining options and potential costs for alternative means of providing logistical support to the McMurdo and South Pole stations in the event that icebreaking capabilities are not available.

The Committee commends NSF for its Silicon Nanoelectronics and Beyond program which involves the sponsorship of research in the areas of information technology and electronics. The Committee encourages NSF to continue the support of such research in fiscal year 2006.

The Committee is aware that NSF's Children Research Initiative has assisted important interdisciplinary collaborations that are making important contributions to research in child development. The Committee expects NSF to continue its research efforts in this area in FY 2006.

The recommendation includes language that allows funds provided under this account to be available for innovation inducement prizes. The concept of inducement awards to encourage broad involvement in solving a specifically stated scientific problem has been a catalyst for scientific advancement since at least the early 18th century. In 1999, a National Academies workshop on this topic encouraged Federal agencies to make more extensive use of this mechanism to pursue particular scientific and technological objectives. The Committee expects NSF to engage the National Academies to craft a prize or categories of prizes that would be of an appropriate scale and to develop the rules and conditions for awarding prizes, and to report back to the Committee on plans to initiate a prize program in fiscal year 2006. The Committee strongly encourages NSF to use this mechanism, particularly in programs that specifically emphasize innovation, to focus on high risk/high payoff research projects. The Committee also expects NSF to encourage private sector involvement in the effort to create a prize program. major research equipment and facilities construction

*******************

Article 860

If patent law is strong, then technology transfer can flourish, resulting in a profound and positive impact on the health, safety and welfare of the people in this country and worldwide. If patent law is weakened the technology transfer falters, as do American universities and companies that depend on university research and the public.

In 1980, when the Bayh-Dole Act was passed, approximately 25 U.S. universities had technology transfer offices. No uniform federal policy existed and federally funded discoveries were rarely patented and commercialized. Today more than 230 universities have technology transfer offices and universities are now the owners of tens of thousands of U.S. patents.

Today's list of university inventions is also impressive. The list includes the lithography system to enable the manufacturing of nano devices from the University of Texas, Austin and an effective aneurysm treatment coming out of the University of California, Los Angeles.

In the past two decades, intellectual property assets have become vital to the performance of the U.S. economy. Because of financial and administrative stresses in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, lapses in the quality of patents occasionally occur.

It is my belief that low quality patents issued from the PTO are the exceptions rather than the rule, but even the exceptions should not be tolerated. As a member of the Patent Public Advisory Counsel, I know that the PTO is working hard to ensure that all patents that are issued are of high quality, but as you know, the first line of defense against poor quality patents and slow decision making is to provide the PTO the resources that it needs to hire and train skilled examiners and to implement effective electronic processing. 

*******************

Article 861

In 1980, under the leadership of this Subcommittee and the House Science Committee, Congress enacted the Patent and Trademark Law Amendments Act (commonly known as the Bayh-Dole Act). See 35 U.S.C. 200-212. This Subcommittee drafted into law the cardinal principle that the public benefits from public policy that permits universities and small businesses to elect ownership of technology invented with federal funding and to become participants in the commercialization process. After passage of the Bayh-Dole Act, universities and colleges developed and strengthened the internal expertise needed to engage effectively in the patenting and licensing of inventions. Today, the list of university inventions is indeed impressive. This list includes, among others, the following:

--The UW solution for the preservation of organs for transplant - University of Wisconsin - Madison;

--Lithography system to enable the manufacturing of nano devices - University of Texas - Austin;

--Rheumatoid arthritis relief - University of California - San Diego;

--Helping emphysema victims breath again - University of Florida;

--Effective Aneurysm Treatment - UCLA;

--Lice shampoo - Purdue Research Foundation;

--Google - Stanford University; and

--Turf grass - Rutgers University.


*******************

Article 862

Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375) expressed the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of Defense should continue to fund this program at a sustaining level. With a shrinking industrial base for shipbuilding already driving higher costs, this type of initiative is essential to providing efficiencies. The committee believes it is shortsighted not to invest in improved processes that would reduce the cost of shipbuilding. The committee recommends an increase of $10.0 million in PE 78730N for the NSRP-ASE.

Air Force

Air Force basic science

The budget request included $223.9 million in PE 61102F, for Air Force defense research sciences. Innovative work supported by the Air Force basic research accounts is key to ensuring that our military has future capabilities and equipment to meet emerging threats. Applications such as air combat systems and ground support optoelectronics have foundations in novel nanomaterials used for the development of optical devices which are, in turn, components of information processing systems. The ability to quickly, securely, and reliably process information enables information dominance, one of a number of broad defense objectives. The committee recommends an increase of $2.5 million in PE 61102F, for nanophotonic components, the building blocks of electronic materials in a number of aircraft, ship, and soldier systems.

Air Force missions in the areas of reducing time to target and rapid response to global threats require basic and applied research on missile propulsion systems. Research on hypersonic engine designs have produced some early results over the last year. Design tools to predict and monitor performance of propulsion and control systems are needed, as are trained experts to move promising research forward. The committee recommends an increase of $4.0 million in PE 61102F to expand basic hypersonics research and to develop a strong academic program in hypersonics flow physics.


*******************

Article 863

The year 2020 sounds like a long time away. But because of the complexity of the technical work that must be done to invent and implement the nanomaterial future, Intel and the semiconductor industry have begun investing in significant research and development to bridge to the nanomaterial future. Much of this work takes place within the context of the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors (ITRS). The ITRS lays out the key scientific and environmental challenges that must be met in order to continue progress along the path predicted by Moore's Law. It is important to emphasize that the ITRS, and much of the current nanotechnology R&D being undertaken in the semiconductor industry, is viewed as "pre-competitive" - companies from across the industry, from around the world, are pursuing a common basic research agenda, working through cooperative institutions like Sematech and the Semiconductor Research Corporation. The economic promise and technical challenges of nanotechnology require effective international collaboration.

Within Europe, Intel has been active in the Belgium-based Interuniversity MicroElectronics Center (IMEC), the European Nanoelectronics Initiative Advisory Council (ENIAC), and other industry-government cooperative ventures. We will also play a major role in the upcoming First International Nanotechnology Conference on Communication and Cooperation, scheduled for early June in San Francisco.

I have referred several times to "Moore's Law." What is Moore's Law and why does it matter? Forty years ago, Gordon Moore, one of the founders of Intel, predicted in an industry magazine that the number of transistors in integrated circuits would double every year. Moore later updated his projection to a doubling every two years, accounting for the increased complexity of semiconductors. Moore's observation really focuses on two phenomena - increasing density of transistors on semiconductors and radically decreasing cost per transistor. It describes the phenomenon in our industry whereby we etch ever smaller-sized features in silicon. Moore's Law was a prediction based on an observation, not a true "law." But it has functioned as a law in the sense that it has driven the pace of change and innovation in our industry, as we seek to continue the trend of past advances.

*******************

Article 864

A Center that had great difficulty in attracting individuals to its high-cost area made effective use of the authorities. By offering the enhanced travel benefits to a freshout from the East Coast, the Center was able to attract an individual with a Master's degree in Industrial and Systems Engineering with a concentration in Human- Machine Systems. The candidate would not have accepted the position without the relocation package.

In another instance, the Center was able to hire an individual from the private sector for a position associated with Nanotechnology Systems. This candidate had directlyrelated experience in nanotechnology development, nanoelectronic device integration, sensing materials, and sensor array development. The individual's current employer was offering a higher salary and a generous leave package than the Center's initial offer. By offering the enhanced annual leave in combination with an advanced inhire rate, the Center was able to come close to matching the vacation package she already had. The same Center also had success in filling a term Research Psychologist position that had been vacant a long time by using the new term appointment authority, and offering the selected candidate the enhanced annual leave benefit.

One Center was able to attract an engineer with a doctorate in systems engineering and over 20 years of experience in the aerospace industry to a position supporting the Shuttle program by using the enhanced leave benefit as an incentive. This person had been reluctant to accept a new appointment with limited leave benefits for familyrelated reasons. By offering this benefit, we were able to compete successfully with the private sector in bringing him to NASA.

*******************

Article 865

It is not only the nature of science that is changing. The condition of our patients has evolved differently as well. Our success in prolonging life and treating acute diseases means that more patients are living with chronic and multiple illnesses. Our treatment methods must adapt to older patients with multiple symptoms just as our methods of conducting research must adapt to changes in science.

I testified before this Subcommittee last year that we cannot be static, that NIH must enhance the current process for determining priorities and allocating resources as part of a balanced research portfolio across the Agency and within each Institute and Center. I noted that the system of funding research by allocating resources directly to disease, organ, or special population-based Institutes and Centers has been successful. I also observed that science is changing, driven by new technologies and discoveries. Modern research is often best conducted by teams, which may include biologists, mathematicians, chemists, physicists, engineers, bioimagers, computer scientists, behavioral scientists, and physicians, and which may cut across the expertise of many different NIH Institutes and Centers. Several fertile areas of research - genomics, proteomics, molecular engineering - serve all fields of endeavor and cannot be pigeonholed or accounted for according to specific diseases.

I told you that I was thinking about ways to refine the priority setting process and the management of our portfolio. In particular, I have been examining new and sustained approaches for evaluating NIH's crosscutting science. While maintaining the support for existing Institute and Center research programs, we are now using trans-NIH resources to address emerging challenges and opportunities. These new areas of investment involve research that no single Institute can support alone, but that all of NIH needs to pursue because of the impact on all diseases and scientific areas of inquiry. I understand the questions about priority setting at NIH that many have. There are several factors to be considered as we ponder the answers.

*******************

Article 866

But let me interrupt you just for a moment, because some of your thinking is very high-concept thinking, and I want to give you my rendition of what I think is in this book. Okay?

MR. KURZWEIL: Sure. 

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: The key concept, the core concept, is the rate of progress. Kurzweil and Grossman see the rate of human progress in this century moving 10 times faster than ever before. At that rate, he thinks we will solve genetic riddles and biomedical processes to achieve huge advances in bioengineering to prolong life.

Moreover, they see a convergence with a -- with progress in artificial intelligence and technology at the molecular level, nanotechnology, that will give biotechnicians the means to repair damage to organs, even the brain, and to fuse our organs with intelligent nanobots -- nanobots that are analogous to robots, but they're nanobots that are the product of nanotechnology, that are actually introduced into the human body. 

MR. KURZWEIL: That's the third bridge.

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: That's the third bridge.

MR. KURZWEIL: We're probably 20 years away from that.

MR. MCLAUGHLIN: Is the core concept that progress --

*******************

Article 867

National Quality Program

5,400

Research Support Activities

57,537

Total, STRS

383,892

Within the funds made available for Electronics and Electrical Engineering, $7,000,000 is for the Office of Law Enforcement Standards [OLES], of which $4,000,000 is to fund the highest priority homeland security research projects. Projects managed by OLES are to be coordinated with the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security. In addition, $1,000,000 is for the nanoelectronics initiative which supports the development of semiconductor technologies.

Within the funds made available for Manufacturing Engineering, $2,000,000 is for the nanomanufacturing initiative enabling critical infrastructural measurements and standards for the developing nanotechnology industry.

*******************

Article 868

Within the amounts provided, $6,000,000 is for continued planning and design activities for the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON). The National Research Council's (NRC) review of the NEON program, while endorsing a NEON-like concept, found that further refinement and more detailed implementation plans were necessary to maximum the benefit from this investment. NSF is expected to consider and incorporate the Council's recommendations as it continues planning and design activities, particularly the NRC's recommendation to strengthen partnerships and collaborations with other Federal agencies. The Committee believes such collaborations are critical to maximize the use of existing observatory networks in order to avoid redundancy of Federal research dollars and reduce the overall cost of the NEON project.

From within the Engineering, Mathematical and Physical Sciences, and Computer and Information Science and Engineering Directorates and the National Nanotechnology Initiative, the Committee remains concerned that researchers are reaching the physical limits of current complementary metal oxide semiconductor process technology and that this will have significant implications for continued productivity growth in the information economy. The Committee commends NSF's examination of the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors and its initiation of the Silicon Nanoelectronics and Beyond program and encourages NSF to consider increasing research support, where feasible, through this program.

The Committee directs NSF to issue guidance to all directorates, not later than December 15, 2004, that research support grant applications from all Smithsonian Institution scientists are fully eligible to compete for NSF funding and are to be given fair consideration in the merit review process.

The Committee encourages the Foundation to continue to work to expand the participation of minority students attending Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and minority serving institutions in NSF research opportunities. The NSF is also encouraged to provide additional support for minority students and faculty by allowing Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) supplements for students to be added to existing research grant awards for faculty from small schools.

*******************

Article 869

INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS

38,012

44,012

G6+6,000

Bipolar Wafer-cell NiMH aircraft battery

G6+2,500

Advanced Nanomaterials Research, NanoPhotonic Components

G6+2,500

Supply Chain Optimization Universal tool kit

G6+1,000

SUPPORT SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT

*******************

Article 870

The budget request included $75.1 million in PE 61103A for the University Research Initiative (URI) program. The URI program provides key support and equipment to the academic community working in support of defense missions. Additional resources focused on emerging needs would yield tools useful to address new challenges on changing battlefields. The committee recommends an increase in PE 61103A of $2.0 million for antiterrorism building and construction in support of the Department's comprehensive approach to force protection.

University industry research centers

The budget request included $77.7 million in PE 61104A for the Army's University and Industry Research Centers. A significant portion of the work performed within this program directly supports future force requirements. To further research aimed at enabling technologies for future force capabilities, the committee recommends an increase of $6.0 million in PE 61104A: $2.0 million for nanocomposite materials research for use in optical devices and for stealth coatings; $2.5 million for ferroelectric nanodevice development for secure communications and rapid information gathering; and $1.5 million for information assurance research in areas of insider threat mitigation, wireless and sensor network security, secure distributed computing, user interface design for secure applications, and information assurance education standards.

Army materials technology

The budget request included $15.4 million in PE 62105A for materials technology. To enhance survivability and lethality of Future Combat Systems, the committee recommends an increase in PE 62105A of $7.5 million: $2.5 million for Army mine detection and blast mitigation research; $2.0 million for affordable multi-utility materials, and $3.0 million for advanced materials processing.

*******************

Article 871

SIA Recommendations to Congress for NIST and Other Research Agencies

The SIA supports the Administration proposal for increased spending at the NIST laboratories, and specifically $25.5 million to equip the Advanced Measurement Laboratory, $15.6 million for advances in manufacturing (including $4 million for electronics and semiconductor nano-metrology). These increases represent a good first step toward achieving the funding level at NIST that was envisioned when the NIST Office of Microelectronics was established n,1,994. . SIA, would encourage NIST to insure that a portion of this increase is devoted t6 fitnding'for university research in metrology.

The:budget increases at NIST aimed at metrology issw-,g should be done ' in concert: with, increased appropriations for other programs in semiconductor research at universities. SIA supports significant increases in the NSF budget, and in particular funds focused on nanoelectronics research as authorized in the Boehlert- Honda Act.' The House Appropriations report for NSF noted the importance of semiconductor advances to continued productivity growth in our economy and encouraged the NSF to increase research aimed at the challenges outlined in the ITRS. The House Science committee might consider similar language in its report to support increased alignment of NIST research and the priorities identified by the ITRS. SIA also urges Congress to appropriate $20 million for the Defense Department's Government Industry Cosponsorship of University Research program. 3 This program funds the Semiconductor Focus Center Research Program at 30 universities across the country .a

Increased Spending on Chip Research Benefits the Federal Budget

*******************

Article 872

We've been very successful, I'm pleased to report, in bringing these two communities together to translate the fundamental discoveries from the technologically based scientists into meaningful clinical applications to patients. That is certainly our goal, and we work very hard to achieve that.

The progress today has been quite remarkable, given our short history of only two years. I'd like to tell you about two examples in this area.

The first is the development of a new technology called quantum dots. These are small nanocrystals that are able to identify specific cells in the body of interest, say cancer cells. They could also be used to identify the deposition of plaque in arteries.

We've also seen progress in an area that many persons in the audience might appreciate. No doubt, many people here have had MRI scans. This is a marvelous technology. In fact, the subject of a Nobel Prize in Medicine this year.

But some of our researchers have tackled one of the problems, which is the speed with which these scans can be made. And these researchers have improved the speed of acquisition tenfold. So that study that used to take several minutes to acquire, can now be acquired in a matter seconds.

*******************

Article 873

To this end, one representative example of the technologies we are pursuing is the three-dimensional circuit architecture, which will be foundational to the Integrated Microsystem. We believe that by dividing a circuit into a number of blocks, implementing each block on a separate semiconductor layer, and then stacking the layers on top of one another, we will increase performance, reduce overall system size, and create entirely new options for device architecture and materials integration. Instead of thinking only in terms of scaling two-dimensional devices to smaller sizes, we will change the paradigm to one of volumetric integration.

Moreover, today's state-of-the-art semiconductor processes give us the ability to build structures with a degree of edge smoothness that was previously unattainable. This will make it possible to build optical structures, including wave guides, alongside transistors and MEMS on a single substrate, and will result in high performance nanophotonics and electronics integrated on a single chip. Such chips will also be scalable into the third dimension, as we stack them with other devices into highly Integrated Microsystems.

Such capabilities could enable autonomous and interactive systems that can reason, sense, communicate, and actuate. Such systems will be able to operate unattended for years at a time, and they will give the DoD an overwhelming capability and advantage in response to surprise or emerging threats.

These Integrated Microsystems might also enable small, and effective robotic systems that work autonomously in concert, to decisively engage and defeat a wide variety of enemy forces across the entire spectrum of conflict.


*******************

Article 874

To this end, one representative example of the technologies we are pursuing is the three-dimensional circuit architecture, which will be foundational to the Integrated Microsystem. We believe that by dividing a circuit into a number of blocks, implementing each block on a separate semiconductor layer, and then stacking the layers on top of one another, we will increase performance, reduce overall system size, and create entirely new options for device architecture and materials integration. Instead of thinking only in terms of scaling two-dimensional devices to smaller sizes, we will change the paradigm to one of volumetric integration.

Moreover, today's state-of-the-art semiconductor processes give us the ability to build structures with a degree of edge smoothness that was previously unattainable. This will make it possible to build optical structures, including wave guides, alongside transistors and MEMS on a single substrate, and will result in high performance nanophotonics and electronics integrated on a single chip. Such chips will also be scalable into the third dimension, as we stack them with other devices into highly Integrated Microsystems.

Such capabilities could enable autonomous and interactive systems that can reason, sense, communicate, and actuate. Such systems will be able to operate unattended for years at a time, and they will give the DoD an overwhelming capability and advantage in response to surprise or emerging threats.

These Integrated Microsystems might also enable small, and effective robotic systems that work autonomously in concert, to decisively engage and defeat a wide variety of enemy forces across the entire spectrum of conflict.


*******************

Article 875

Wafer-scale planarization technology

Future defense electronic systems require new methods to place more transistors on ever-shrinking silicon and gallium arsenide chips. Multiple technologies are being developed for this purpose, but advancement of planarization technology is not being adequately addressed. Therefore, the committee recommends an increase of $5.0 million to PE 63175C for research and development in wafer-scale planarization technology.

Bottom Anti-Reflective Coatings for circuit boards

Bottom Anti-Reflective Coatings (BARC) are used for ultra high-density circuits to reduce the feature size on circuit boards. If the BARC program is successful, printed circuit cards could be reduced in size by as much as 40 percent, ultimately allowing the size and weight of computers in missile defense components, such as interceptors, to be reduced commensurately. The committee recommends an increase of $5.0 million in PE 63175C for BARC.

Nanophotonics system fabrication facility

Nanophotonics is a combination of nanofabrication and photonics focused on the development of devices embedded in semiconductor chips that control photons, or light, at the nanometer level. Photonic hit indicators are used on ballistic missile defense test targets to determine precisely where the interceptor hits the target. The nanophotonics systems fabrication facility would focus on the development, integration, and packaging of devices for photonic systems, with methods based on those utilized in the integrated circuit industry. The committee believes in the potential of photonic systems and recommends an increase of $3.7 million in PE 63175C for the development of a nanophotonics systems fabrication facility.

Wide-bandgap semiconductor

There is an increasing need for semiconductors that can withstand high electricity and high temperature, especially for the compact, lightweight electronics required for ballistic missile defense systems. The wide-bandgap semiconductor program researches the use of Gallium Nitride, which can function at higher temperatures than conventional materials. The committee agrees on the importance of Gallium Nitride as a semiconductor for the projects within the Missile Defense Agency and in other areas. Therefore, the committee recommends an increase of $10.0 million in PE 63175C for the wide-bandgap semiconductor program.

*******************

Article 876

- Radiation Resistant Microbe Could Reduce Common Contaminants at DOE Sites - The radiation resistant "superbug" Deinococcus radiodurans, was shown by researchers at DOE's Pacific Northwest National Laboratory to change chemical species of contaminants common to DOE sites (e.g., Uranium, Technetium, and Chromium). Deinococcus radiodurans may provide a means for limiting the migration of radionuclides and heavy metals from soil to water supplies. Moreover, Deinococcus has now been reported to be common in the populations of soil microorganisms beneath radioactive waste storage tanks at the Hanford reservation, making this microbe especially promising for in situ bioremediation approaches.

- Weather Forecast Accuracy Improved through Measurements and Modeling of Atmospheric Radiation - The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement (ARM) program has improved the agreement between measured and modeled instantaneous clear sky infrared fluxes from 20 Watts per square meter to 5 Watts per square meter. The inclusion of the advanced radiation code into climate models has resulted in a 7 percent improvement in the usefulness of weather forecasts by extending the forecast period and reducing the computation time required to produce the forecasts.

- Carbon Sequestration Possible Through "Artificial Leaves" Made of Semiconductor Nanocrstals - Recent experiments demonstrated that carbon dioxide could be removed from the atmosphere using semiconductor nanocrystals. These "artificial leaves" could potentially convert carbon dioxide into useful organic molecules with major environmental benefits. However, to be practical, efficiency must be substantially improved. New theoretical studies have unraveled the detailed mechanisms involved and identified the key factors limiting efficiency. Based on this new understanding, alternative means for improving efficiency were suggested that could lead to effective implementation of artificial leaves.

Energy Security:

- Energy Savings Possible from Micro-size Light Emitters - Energy savings of tens of billions of dollars per year could be achieved by replacement of household 100-watt light bulbs by white light emitting diodes (LED) made by mixing LEDs emitting primary colors. However, improved LED efficiency is necessary before such replacement becomes feasible. New research has shown that interconnecting hundreds of micro-size LEDs to replace larger conventional LEDs can boost the overall emission efficiency by as much as 60 percent.

*******************

Article 877

- Gas Chromatograph on a Silicon Chip - A prototype miniature gas chromatograph and detector on a silicon chip has been developed. The unit is presently configured for gaseous chemical agent detection. However its capabilities can be expanded as an analytical instrument for other toxic compounds. By expanding the capabilities of this system it could be used as a low-cost real- time detector for volatile organic compounds as a part of an early warning system in a municipal water distribution system.

- Nanoelectrode Analysis System - A chip-based micro-electrode system that can be used for the analysis of various inorganic toxic species in water such as cyanide, arsenic, lead, and chromium that might be encountered in a municipal water supply is being developed. Additional work would concentrate on the development of low-cost, low maintenance electrode analysis systems that could be easily deployed in a large network of interconnected sensors within a water distribution system.

- Simple Solid State Sensors - Low-cost sensors such as chemiresistor sensors and surface acoustic wave sensors based on micro-chip technologies that can effectively serve as hydrocarbon or other chemical spill detectors have been developed. Additional research would be used to optimize the performance of these sensors and package them in such a way that they could be included in an early warning system for a municipal water supply system. These sensors could be used in concert with some of the other more sensitive systems such as liquid-chem-lab and gas- chromatograph-on-a-chip as a part of a comprehensive early warning system for water supply systems.


*******************

Article 878

Senate Bills

Mr. Chairman, the Senate bills and the particular titles and sections of these bills that are of interest to the Committee today cover a diverse mix of scientific interests, programs, enhancements to these programs, and related administrative actions. There are parts of ten bills, including eight mentioned in your letter of invitation and two bills added since then, of interest here today.

I want to assure the Committee that the Administration is interested in each provision of these bills. I can provide today some general comments on the salient aspects of some of these bills, but in other cases the Administration has not yet developed a full or formal position. We look forward to working with you on this in the weeks and months ahead.

With regard to S.90 and S.193, the Department has not yet taken any formal position. S.90 would require the Secretary of Energy to support an R&D program in nanoscience and nanoengineering, and to establish similarly focused research centers, at authorizations totaling $1.36 billion over 5 years. S.193 would require the Secretary to support a research program in advanced scientific computing, at authorizations totaling $1.15 billion over 4 years. Both bills are supportive of our ongoing programs in these areas, but the authorization levels are inconsistent with the Administration's budget requests and recent appropriations levels set by Congress.

S.242 and S.472 represent the first major nuclear energy legislation since the passage of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. At the outset, I would like to express the Administration's general support for legislation that sets a direction to implement the nuclear components of the Administration's National Energy Policy. S.242 would require the Secretary to support a program to maintain the Nation's human resource investment and infrastructure in the nuclear sciences and engineering, including a program supportive of student fellowships and university research and training reactors, and authorizes funding totaling $240 million over 5 years.

S.472, entitled the Nuclear Energy Electricity Supply Assurance Act of 2001, would promote expanded use of nuclear energy as a major component of our Nation's energy strategy. The particular sections and titles of S.472 that are of interest to the Committee at this hearing pertain only to the related research programs (sections 111, 121, 122, 123, 125, 127, 204 and 205), the development of a spent nuclear fuel strategy (title IV), and the application of advanced proton accelerators for the production of various isotopes and the transmutation of spent nuclear fuel and waste (title V). Authorizations for FY 2002 total $184.2 million for the research programs; $10 million for title IV; and $120 million for title V.

*******************

Article 879

Insert offset folio 239 here SR292.183 gsd533

Insert offset folio 240 here SR292.184 gsd533

Insert offset folio 241 here SR292.185 gsd533

Insert offset folio 242 here SR292.186

Laser processing tools

The committee recommends an increase of $4.0 million in PE 62102F for the development and application of a high power, tunable, ultraviolet laser processing tool for the fabrication of micro-engineered components and subsystems pertinent to aerospace applications. A high-average power free electron laser with ultraviolet capability would allow processing materials and micro make micro- and nano-devices for space systems applications. This research would also assist in enabling the Air Force's ability to manufacture low-cost pico and nano-satellites, and microsystems. The committee directs that all applicable competitive procedures be used in the award of contracts or other agreements under this program and that cost sharing be used to the maximum extent practicable.

Resin systems for Air Force applications

The committee recommends an increase of $2.0 million in PE 62102F for the development and demonstration of high temperature resin systems for Air Force engine applications. The committee understands that this technology could reduce the cost of high temperature components in turbine engines for fighter aircraft. The committee directs that cost sharing be used to the maximum extent practicable.

*******************

Article 880

Nano-science or nano-technology refers to the creation and utilization of materials, devices, and systems through the control of matter on the nano-meter length scale or at the level of atoms and molecules. The essence of utilizing this technology is the ability to work at these fundamental scales to produce larger structures termed nano-structures, which exhibit novel physical, chemical, and biological properties and phenomena.


The department's efforts in this area are focused on determining how to exploit the properties and efficiently manufacture and employ the structures. Computer chips have increased in complexity, speed, and memory primarily due to scaling and minimum feature size.


Future advances will necessitate manipulation of matter at atomic level. Improvements in coating and surface preparation resulting from molecular engineering on the nano-scale have produced dramatic increases in the wear and corrosion resistance of materials.



ETTER: This area is in its infancy, and future advances in nano- science and technology will yield dramatic improvement in the reliability, manufacture ability, and cost reduction of materials. Nano-technology applied to medical use permits treatment of disease on the cellular level and the opportunity to perform tissue engineering. Early results here have already given us a new bandage that can effectively control bleeding, thereby resulting in reduced casualty rates


The third technology I'd like to mention is hyperspectral technology. The utility and promise of hyperspectral sensing is based on determining the reflected and emitted spectra of the background and the target by dispersing the sensed radiant signal into hundreds of spectral bands. After mathematically correcting for the atmospheric signals, the digital spectrum can then be measured and compared to known target and background signature.

*******************

Article 881

EXPLANATION OF PROJECT LEVEL ADJUSTMENTS (In thousands of dollars)

(PLEASE REFER TO ORIGINAL SOURCE FOR TABLE.) Budget

(PLEASE REFER TO ORIGINAL SOURCE FOR TABLE.) Senate

(PLEASE REFER TO ORIGINAL SOURCE FOR TABLE.)

RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT TEST & EVAL, DEFENSE-WIDE

DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES 64,293 66,293 66,293 67,893

Spectral hole burning applications 2,000 1,700

Nanoelectric research (Note: $1,900,000 is only for molecular and Quantum-Dot Cellular Automata nanoelectronic research.) 2,000 1,900

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES 216,778 227,278 221,778 231,378

Anticorrosion studies 1,500 800

Advanced high yield software development 1,500 800

Active hyperspectral imaging sensor research 2,000 2,000

DEPSCOR (25,000) (25,000) (25,000)

Personnel research institute (2,000) (2,000)

Remote sensing 5,000 2,000

Defense commercialization research initiative 5,500 5,500

Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Verification 1,500

*******************

Article 882

By 12th grade, our students are near the bottom. We can and must do better. The request sustains our current base of innovative activities -- and plants a few new seeds as well. One of those promising seeds is the new Graduate Teaching Fellows program. The program may seem small at only $7.5 million, but it is an important beginning with a potential impact well beyond the dollars. It will broaden graduate education, and boost the science, engineering, and technology content in K through 12 classrooms.
I'll just mention a few other highlights before closing.
The Plant Genome Research Program will continue to increase. Its funding will increase by $5 million to a total of $55 million.
This builds on an existing research base of $20 million -- bringing the total investment to $75 million. This will provide the scientific underpinning in the future to improve nutritional content of our food crops, both in quality and yields.
A new start in the budget is the Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation. We are providing $8 million in FY 2000 toward a total investment of $82 million over the next five years. This is modeled after the highly successful nanofabrication network NSF began several years ago. This will lead to a national, fully-interconnected network of major earthquake research facilities.
Finally, we will be continuing investments in a number of major infrastructure projects. One is the modernization of the South Pole Station, which remains on schedule and on budget, thanks in large part to the forward funding provided by the subcommittee in past years.
That covers the basics of the budget. Let me conclude by adding that by its very timing, a budget for the first year of a new millennium takes on added significance.
That applies doubly so to NSF. The year 2000 marks the 50th Anniversary of the National Science Foundation.
Given the increase we have received in this very tight budget environment, it is clear that this is a "golden anniversary" investment. This is also an appropriate time to step back and think about the long-term importance of investments in science and engineering.
Unfortunately, our fast-paced world make it hard for us to focus beyond today's problems and concerns. It's a challenge to make a case for investment in our children's future.
Thankfully, this subcommittee has traditionally taken a more long-term view, even though the payoffs from some basic research may come ten or twenty years from now.
You have consistently supported NSF's investments over the years in a bipartisan manner. For this, let me thank you again. I look forward to working with all of you to strengthen our nation's investment in the future as we approach the next millennium. Thank you.
END

*******************

Article 883

I would like to thank the chairman for inviting me to appear today before the subcommittee. I am here on behalf of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) whose members are employing modem techniques of biotechnology to improve American agriculture.
The first thing I would like to do today is to thank the Members of this Committee, and the full membership of the U.S. Congress, as well as the Administration, for all your support and hard work on behalf of the U.S. biotechnology industry, especially in relation to our ongoing trade difficulties with the European Union. At the moment it looks as if we will continue for a while to have some rough spots to negotiate on the road ahead, and we look forward to continuing to work with you and the Administration to smooth our passage together through them.
The efforts of BIO's member companies to apply biotechnology to produce new products to benefit consumers, farmers, and the environment are no longer a dream but a reality. This past growing season farmers across America planted over 60 million acres with genetically engineered corn, cotton, soybeans, tomatoes, potatoes, and canola. 
These efforts are the culmination of 20 years of research following the creation of the first genetically transformed plants containing foreign DNA. This ability to molecular engineer major crop plants delineated a promise for a new revolution in American agriculture. Tremendous strides had been made in plant breeding during the decades preceding the discovery of recombinant DNA technology, yet the ability to add new traits to crops was still time consuming since only blocks of compatible genetic material could be transferred rather than a specific gene or genes. Often extensive backcrossings were required to delete undesirable traits. Clearly recombinant DNA could overcome many of the obstacles that the plant breeders faced.
Just as hand pollination allowed the breeder to directly modify the plant genome, this new biotechnology represents another step along the continuum. However, rather than making a wide genetic cross where numerous uncharacterized genes (as many as 50,000 at once!) are carried forward into the plant's progeny, plant breeders using biotechnology can rationally add one or a few selected and well- characterized traits. The newbiotechnology allows the selection of traits with precision, shortens the crop development cycle, and will lead to the continual introduction of safe new varieties into commerce.

*******************

Article 884

To improve access to these essential resources, NCRR plans to create an integrated network of several Mutant Mouse Regional Resources, abbreviated MMRR. These MMRRs will share a common database and be coordinated and linked electronically. Because of their regional nature, these resources will be responsive to individual investigator needs, and because of their interrelatedness, they will operate efficiently and cost effectively.It may sound like a utopian dream, but many scientists believe that it one day may be possible to grow replacement organs in tissue culture from cells that have been specifically programmed. Already, skin is routinely grown in large sheets and used to replace skin destroyed by bums or other types of injury. But before complex tissues from the brain, heart, or liver can be reliably reproduced, years of research lie ahead. Studies on pluripotent cells, known as stem cells, can provide important information on how the different organ systems in the body develop and how this development can be controlled and put to good use. Unfortunately, stem cells still are difficult to isolate and culture. To help researchers obtain these critical cells, NCRR plans to support the establishment of a repository and distribution center for nonhuman stem cells and to support research grants to characterize stem cells in nonhuman species. Such stem cell studies may eventually lead to effective treatments for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease and to production of replacement heart valves and functional liver tissue.
BIOENGINEERING, COMPUTERS AND ADVANCED INSTRUMENTATION
Ongoing efforts to decode the complete human genome, determine the functions of proteins, and grow specific replacement tissues in culture, lead unavoidably to the question: How does it all hang together? How do genes produce proteins at exactly the fight moments and right amounts? How are different types of cells made and controlled? Scientists in this country and abroad are hard at work to unravel these complex interrelationships. This comprehensive research discipline, known as Integrated Genomics, requires extensive development of new multidisciplinary technologies that can characterize proteins in single cells, and requires expertise in such areas as nanofabrication, bioengineering, laser application, optics, molecular biology, and high-end computing and separation science-again underscoring the multidisciplinary nature of health-related research.

NCRR intends to support these farreaching efforts, which will have enormous influence on current biomedical thinking and will likely lead to more efficient treatment of inherited and even acquired disorders.The detailed functions of individual proteins cannot be understood completely until their three-dimensional structures are known. The brilliant x-rays generated in synchrotrons and used in x- ray crystallography studies allow scientists to determine three- dimensional structures of molecules with unprecedented resolution. But recent successes in sequencing genes from the human, mouse, zebrafish and other genomes have generated many proteins of unknown function which has led to an increasing demand for structural biology studies that threaten to overwhelm the synchrotron facilities. To help alleviate major access problems at the NCRR-supported synchrotron resources for biomedical research, NCRR plans to provide funding for increased staffing and new detectors that will improve data collection efficiency. NCRR also intends to solicit research project grant applications that emphasize new experimental and computational approaches to solving crystallographic phasing problems. Knowing the three-dimensional structure of proteins will help scientists design targeted drugs and develop more efficient treatment of diseases.

*******************

Article 885

What sort of advances have come out of the ATP? They cover a broad range that reflects the diversity of companies, large and small, that have partnered in the program.
The ATP has gained some recognition as one of the early investors in the now burgeoning field of DNA analysis. The ATP provided critical early funding for the development of powerful new technologies that offer extraordinary advances in speed and convenience of DNA analysis. These technologies are rapidly advancing our capabilities to decode genes, manage diseases, discover new drugs, and cut costs in the trillion-dollar U.S. health-care industry.The first of these systems are initial spin-offs of an ongoing ATP joint venture aimed at making low-cost, hand-held diagnostic devices for quickly analyzing DNA samples in doctors' offices. The devices will feature a combination of technologies developed by two small biotechnology firms in California. Affymetrix, Inc., adapted a photolithography manufacturing process to make postage stamp-sized DNA chips, which contain hundreds of thousands of gene sequences that detect matches in blood or tissue samples up to 100 times faster than conventional methods. Molecular Dynamics has introduced a system that sorts and sequences DNA in 96 tiny capillaries (tubes the size of a human hair) faster and more efficiently than traditional methods.
In electronics, researchers at Texas Instruments and NanoPore, Inc., a small New Mexico company, collaborated on an ATP project to create a practical, new insulating material to meet the requirements of the ultrafast integrated circuits of tomorrow. Entraining air, nature's ideal insulator, in microscopic glass bubbles they developed a novel insulator, xerogel, which was incorporated into an integrated circuit for the first time as part of an ATP project. As a follow up, the researchers combined a specific xerogel formula with a new technique for replacing conventional aluminum wires in integrated circuits with copper, a better conductor. The result: a new technology that could mean a 10-fold increase in microprocessor speed and vastly more powerful computers, cellular telephones, factory control systems, and other products. The innovation demonstrates a practical solution to a critical microelectronics problem: how to pack more circuits into smaller spaces without producing "cross talk", the jumping of signals between unconnected wires.
In manufacturing, the ATP supported major project involving a broad coalition of large and small companies under the National Center for Manufacturing Sciences to developed a suite of advanced technologies for machine-tool spindles -- the part that holds the cutting tool on a rotating shaft. Don't be fooled by the apparently Iow-tech nature of a spindle. The multidisciplinary team assembled for this project developed a suite of innovations with literally "revolutionary" impact. The new design has the potential to save as much as $6 million annually in the production of a single part. It's unique bearing design won an R&D 100 award for technological innovation.

*******************

Article 886

Last year the Defense Department issued an announcement of a competition under the aegis of the Defense EPSCoR program. A total of 260 projects were received from the 19 states eligible to participate in DEPSCoR. Following review of the individual projects by the appropriate research office (the Army Research Office, the Ballistic Missile 'Defense Organization, the Office of Naval Research, or the Air Force Office of Scientific Research) 55 projects were selected for funding with $16.4 million made available in FY97. The average award was $295,000. Subsequently, the Department announced the selection of 72 additional projects for funding with $18 million made available in FY98. The average of those awards was $250,000.
Mr. Chairman, some of the most important scientific break throughs and innovative technologies that have changed our modem world have been produced by university-based scientists and engineers supported by the Defense Department's R&D efforts. University based research helped to develop new technologies and new ideas that have made fundamental contributions to a strong national defense. Among the major contributions over the years have been radar, nuclear power, digital computers, lasers,vaccines and new drugs to fight diseases that debilitate service personnel. Not all of the innovative discoveries developed university laboratories have been as profound as these, but each in turn has made small' contributions to maintaining America's technological superiority.
As Secretary Cohen has said: "How wisely we invest in research today will greatly influence the readiness of our future forces to succeed when called to protect our national interest."
I would like to cite a few examples of some of the research being conducted in our states that support the Department's national defense mission.
- Researchers in Alabama have received funding for work on thermoelectric materials and devices for cooling small microelectronic components, work that will provide important technological components for the very small computers and other electronic devices of the future.
- DEPSCoR funded a program in the Physics Department at the University of Arkansas which is a unique molecular beam facility. For the first time it will be possible to control the growth of semiconductor devices, as opposed to growth by chance. Using new equipment purchased through the DEPSCoR program, these researchers believe it is possible to more carefully design semiconductor fabrication. Another piece of equipment, a scanning tunneling microscope, has enabled them to produce semiconductor structures with interfaces of the highest quality ever seen. Based on new concepts developed through DEPSCoR- sponsored research, the Arkansas researchers expect to develop the fastest transistor ever.
- Engineers and scientists at the University of Louisville and the University of Kentucky have established an Electro-Optics Research institute to design cutting-. edge optical pattern recognition systems. Mississippi State University researchers working in partnership with the Naval Oceanographic Office are developing a knowledge discovery system consisting of an oceanographic database and the tools needed to support the automated extraction of information from the database. This project will aid scientists at NAVOCEANO in the identification and characterization of geologically similar regions of the ocean floor and the development of a prototypical system that uses acoustic imagery to geologically define the ocean floor.


- Likewise, DEPSCoR-funded scientists in Mississippi are working with the Navy's Large Cavitation channel facility to solve problems Navy submarines experience when operating in the shallow waters of the Persian Gulf and other littoral regions, where uncommanded depth charges during high speed maneuvers could place submarines at risk.Clemson University's electrical and computer engineers have created a focused research initiative in mobile wireless battlefield communications. 
*******************

Article 887

(b) The theme areas selected for emphasis by CISE: Human Centered Systems, Computing System Research, and Convergence of Computing and Communication. (These are supported in part by the Knowledge and Distributed Intelligence thrust of Engineering and CISE, but do not yet appear closely tied to design and manufacturing.) All three of these theme areas are potentially important underpinnings for improved design and manufacturing capabilities of the future, where design and manufacturing alternatives are played out in the simulation environment, and geographically distributed designers and design and manufacturing information are drawn upon in formulating design and manufacturing decisions. More specifically, Human-Centered Systems research is focused on the interactions of people and information systems, and as such directly impacts the effectiveness of the next generation of mechanical engineers in performing a range of design and manufacturing tasks. Likewise, both Computing Systems research and Convergence of Computing and Communications support such tasks by offering the potential for new, distributed computing paradigms and enhancing the interactions of geographically distributed experts, computer resources, and relevant databases.
Beyond these individual characteristics of programmatic thrusts, the Task Force endorses the emphasis NSF attaches to work that extends across disciplinary boundaries. This emphasis is evident in both the research thrusts noted above and Engineering's complimentary education and training program under the Agency's theme of Education for the Future. Engineering is inherently a problem definition and solving profession, necessitating teamwork and multidisciplinary thinking. It is hoped that NSF's emphasis of these areas in education will provide a progressively more qualified engineering workforce for the country.
ENGINEERING EDUCATION
Specific observations of the Task Force about Engineering Education expenditures planned for FY 99 include the following:
(a) The $1.0M increase in graduate fellowships to support multidisiplinary training is welcomed.
(b) It is somewhat surprising and disappointing to the Task Force that no increase for FY 99 is programmed for graduate students to pursue doctoral studies in Engineering
(c) The Task Force feels that NSF must be proactive in supporting major research facilities, the quality of which have an important bearing on the quality of engineering education that can be offered. Beyond the national Nanofabrication Users Network, it is unclear whether the increasing FY 99 budget provides an increase in support for major equipment and facilities at academic institutions.
Thank you for the opportunity to present our views on the FY 1999 appropriations for the National Science Foundation. I would be happy to respond to questions.

*******************

Article 888

Alzheimer's Disease, for example. Resource facilities like this and others will accommodate investigator access and permit remote control of sophisticated instruments over the Internet and facilitate electronic communication with colleagues at other sites. Such arrangements will permit interactive tasks as if the collaborators are in the same laboratory. Continuing developments in computer technology and establishment of the ultrafast Internet-2 will allow extensive scientific collaboration and sharing of research resources and technologies. In FY 1999, NCRR plans to expand these initial efforts, so in a few years cooperating university Internet sites will provide gateways to access sophisticated technologies, investigators and databases across the research community.
X-ray crystallography provides the ultimate details of molecular structures. The ultrabright synchrotron-generated X-rays have made it possible to increase resolution to levels that were not believed possible just a few years ago. For example, NCRR supported scientists at Stanford University recently determined the detailed structure of the protein fibrinogen, which is essential to stop bleeding but also contributes to heart disease and stroke. As the human genome project identifies more genes, more proteins of unknown structure and function will require characterization in order to define the causes of disease and to develop novel therapies for them. In FY 1999, NCRR plans to increase its support for investigator access to synchrotron beamlines.
Other recent developments in areas related to genomic research will generate major new multidisciplinary initiatives. Areas such as laser light source technology and design of extremely small-scale tools using nanofabrication and nanobioengineering techniques are now so advanced that engineers and scientists are constructing devices for detection of single molecules and miniaturizing instruments that will save expensive reagents and man hours. For example, the development of microchips for ultrasensitive DNA analysis is a revolutionary approach to miniaturization. Manufacture of these chips requires multidisciplinary expertise in production of computer chips, molecular biology, optics, and gene sequencing that will bring together physicists, engineers, and biologists. NCRR plans to extend its support to provide these powerful tools to identify genetic risk factors which may be modulated by diet, changes in lifestyles or other approaches to prevent, delay or treat disease.
BIOLOGY OF BRAIN DISORDERS
Thanks to powerful new technologies such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, or FMRI, and multiphoton laser scanning microscopy, scientists have gained increasingly detailed insight into the biology of the human brain. NCRR-supported researchers at Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, and Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center have combined the powers of fMRI, high-speed networks, and a supercomputer to produce high-quality 3-D images of the working brain within seconds of recording. To capitalize on these technological enhancements, NCRR will support development and acquisition of instruments that provide images of the brain, including images of tissue damaged by neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's or Alzheimer's, in even more detail than currently possible. In addition, NCRR will support development of user-friendly database structures to facilitate investigator analysis and synthesis of vast data sets. 
*******************

Article 889

That processed information may then be moved over the Internet and analyzed by 3D Visualization tools, using the investigator's own workstation. The image in the center of the Figure was created with a molecular graphics system at the NCRR-supported University of California at San Francisco's Computer Graphics Laboratory. Visualization tools help identify the site on the molecule at which a drug may interact. Candidate drugs and proteins which may bind at the active site can be selected from databases over the Internet at sites somewhere in the US or Europe. The molecule displayed is HIV-1 protease (shown in green and yellow) along with a drug candidate (depicted in magenta) bound within the enzyme's active site. The drug inhibits or blocks the biologic action of the protease and is a potential new treatment for HIV infection in man. The structure of HIV-1 protease was solved by members of the Crystallography Laboratory of the National Cancer Institute. Structure-based drug design is a faster and more cost effective approach to drug development than the empirical approaches used in the past.
Other recent developments in areas related to genomic research will generate major new multidisciplinary initiatives. Areas such as laser light source technology and design of extremely small-scale tools using nanofabrication and nanobioengineering techniques are now so advanced that engineers and scientists are constructing devices for detection of single molecules and miniaturizing instruments that will save expensive reagents and man hours. For example, the development of microchips for ultrasensitive DNA analysis is a revolutionary approach to miniaturization.

Manufacture of these chips requires multidisciplinary expertise in production of computer chips, molecular biology, optics, and gene sequencing that will bring together physicists, engineers, and biologists. NCRR plans to extend its support to provide these powerful tools to identify genetic risk factors which may be modulated by diet, changes in lifestyles or other approaches to prevent, delay or treat disease.
BIOLOGY OF BRAIN DISORDERS
Thanks to powerful new technologies such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, and multiphoton laser scanning microscopy, scientists have gained increasingly detailed insight into the biology of the human brain. NCRR-supported researchers at Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, and Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center have combined the powers of MRI, high-speed networks, and a supercomputer to produce high-quality 3D images of the working brain within seconds of recording. To capitalize on these technological enhancements, NCRR will support development and acquisition of instruments that provide images of the brain, including images of tissue damaged by neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's or Alzheimer's, in even more detail than currently possible. In addition, NCRR will support development of user-friendly database structures to facilitate investigator analysis and synthesis of vast data sets.

*******************

Article 890

integrated command and control technology


The Department requested $37,000,000 for Integrated Command and Control Technology. The Committee recommends $39,000,000, an increase of $2,000,000 only for the high definition camera. Within this amount, $4,000,000 shall be made available only for high definition display systems technology.


materials and electronics technology


The Department requested $192,192,000 for Materials and Electronics technology. The Committee recommends $208,192,000, an increase of $16,000,000. Within this increase, $10,000,000 is only for the Defense Microelectronics Activity and $6,000,000 is only for the Nanofabrication Laboratory as proposed in the House-passed Defense Authorization bill.


defense special weapons agency


The Department requested $211,971,000 for the Defense Special Weapons Agency. The Committee recommends $200,593,000, a net reduction of $11,378,000 to maintain the program at the 1997 funding level. The amount includes an increase of $5,000,000 only to continue ongoing bioenvironmental research.


Advanced Development


explosives demilitarization technology


The Department requested $12,259,000 for Explosives Demilitarization Technology. Within this amount, the Committee recommends $2,000,000 only for the cryogenic washout program.

*******************

Article 891

The budget request contained $121.1 million in PE 63750D for Advanced Concept Technology Demonstrations (ACTD). The committee is concerned that this represents more than a hundred percent increase for the fiscal year 1997 appropriation of $58.5 million. Although the Department has stated that ACTDs are used to apply mature technologies to meet urgent military requirements, the committee has found that ACTDs often use technology that is not mature and fail to address a validated urgent military requirement. Therefore, the committee questions the requirement for the requested funding increase and recommends $91.1 million, a decrease of $30.0 million in PE 63750D.


Advanced lithography program


The budget request contained $32.0 million in PE 63739E for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) advanced lithography program.


The committee notes the critical role played by lithography in the development of advanced microchip technology and the role of the microchip as the engine of the information technology revolution that is the foundation of modern warfighting. The DARPA advanced lithography program was established in response to Section 216 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337) as a goal-oriented program to ensure the development of lithographic processes that would lead to superior performance electronics systems for the Department of Defense. The goal of the DARPA program to provide early research in high risk, high payoff technologies for the pattern transfer of highly complex patterns at sub 0.1 micron resolution, and focuses on the areas of maskless writing, new imaging materials, metrology, and exploitation of recent developments such as proximal probes and quantum structures. DARPA investments are used to demonstrate proofs of concept, with planned early transition to the services and industry for development of the prototype stage; and the DARPA strategy puts responsibility for research and development investments within five or six years of production in the hands of industry. The committee understands that DARPA is working with industry and the Navy to transition the DARPA program in x-ray lithography. To facilitate this transfer and ensure a smooth transition of the technology development program to industry and the Navy, the committee recommends an increase of $15.0 million. The committee also recommends an increase of $6.0 million for the support of ongoing long term nanofabrication and extreme ultraviolet lithography research aimed at the fabrication of nanoelectric structures.


Advanced submarine technology program


The budget request contained $69.1 million in PE 63763E for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency marine technology program. No funds were included for joint U.S./Russian submarine research and development.

*******************

Article 892

The technology enabled them to produce lower cost designs without sacrificing performance. In all, the effort is estimated to have produced first-level benefits totaling more than $93 million. Generated by an initial NIST investment of $430,000 over 10 years, this total does not include scrap reduction and other secondary benefits realized by manufacturers because of the increased accuracy of their inspection equipment.
The legislative mandate of the ATP is to promote "commercializing new scientific studies rapidly" and "refining manufacturing practices." This offers a tremendous scope of opportunity to spur America's creative technology energies. The objective of some projects is to develop technologies that enable lower cost, higher quality, or faster-to-market products. The ultimate objective of others is to develop the know-how to provide new-tothe-world or radically improved products and services. The ATP has a high potential impact on U.S. economic growth because, unlike other Federal technology programs, it makes investments explicitly for this reason rather than for some other National goal.
One example of this is Nanophase Technologies Corporation of Burr Ridge, Illinois, a 2-person start-up company that received an ATP award to develop an innovative process for producing ultra-fineceramic and metal powders at the nanometer scale for applications ranging from skin care products to high performance engine parts. Their ATP research enabled the company to attract support from major industrial organizations and venture capital firms, who furthered commercial development. The company has launched new products, and negotiated an agreement with E. Merck for international distribution of one early project this year. The early applications are projected to yield more than $20 million in annual revenues within three years, and more products are in development. The company has opened the world's first facility devoted to commercial-scale production of nanocrystalline materials, and expects to employ several hundred workers within the next two years. "All of this represents huge progress and success for NTC," says Robert Cross, CEO and President of the company, "and it is directly the result of the challenge and support of the Advanced Technology Program."
I also want to take a look at the ATP program to see how it can be strengthened. I believe ATP is a critically important program that provides enormous benefits to our Nation's long-term economic prosperity. ATP projects play a special role in fostering technological developments that have long-term payoffs and widespread benefits to the economy -- the kind of initiatives that would otherwise not be funded by the private sector. The President's budget provides strong support for this program.
Since becoming Secretary, I have heard a number of questions raised -- by you as well as by others -- about the program and its funding. I am committed to examining questions that have been raised -- about the budget process, about the ratio of new projects to old ones, about big companies winning grants outside of consortia, about whether applicants first.go to private capital markets for funding, and about whether States lacking strong R&D bases should have a better chance of participating in this program. I want to look at all of these questions, and I've asked my staff to consult with public and private experts and ATP participants and prepare an analysis and recommendations for me.
I would be very glad to have the advice of this Committee on these issues (and will be back to you within 60 days with my conclusions).
Before I complete my discussion of NIST this morning, I want to say that I am very impressed by the quality movement in the private sector. Through the Malcolm Baldrige Quality Award, I have already had the chance to meet some of the best and brightest in the private sector. It is clear that Quality Management works, and I want to apply those same principles to the Department of Commerce as much as possible. The advice that one of the leaders of the quality movement in the private sector gave me was to start by creating some "islands of quality" and then build on them. I've selected two organizations in the Department to be our first "islands of quality" -- the Patent andTrademark Office and the National Weather Service.
*******************

Article 893

Title VI Extension of Expenditure Authority Under Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund

sec. 601 extension of expenditure authority under harbor maintenance trust fund


House 601, no comparable Senate section Senate recedes.
Coordination

The Conferees are aware of groundwater contamination at the Sierra Army Depot, migration of this contamination into the Honey Valley Groundwater Basin, and the impact of such contamination on a proposed pipeline project to transfer water to the Reno-Sparks Metropolitan Area. The Secretary is to instruct the appropriate Army Headquarters officials to meet with affected parties and to determine fair compensation to those who have, in good faith, invested in this project but have been damaged by this unfortunate contamination problem.


National Center for Nanofabrication and Molecular Self-Assembly


The managers on the part of the House have receded to the Senate on House amendment section 585, the National Center for Nanofabrication and Molecular Self-Assembly. That section would have authorized the Secretary to provide assistance for the center in Evanston, Illinois.


This assistance could better be provided through the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences than through the Secretary of the Army. The proponents of the center are encouraged to work with the Director to receive any necessary or appropriate assistance. Similarly, the Director is encouraged to explore ways of providing any needed assistance.
*******************

Article 894

To complete the picture, let me turn to what is often referred to as "fundamental" or "basic" research terms which I do not believe are particularly helpful in adding clarity. In our parsing of the subject, what I am referring to is research into the possibilities which nature offers, developing basic understanding of nature in selected areas, building and extending the scientific underpinnings of our business. This type of research, which is not usually coupled in a clear way with the advancement of technologies and products, is an essential element of our research efforts. It provides tremendous value to IBM, although often in ways that are not so direct and obvious as more tightly coupled work. And the understanding of the nature of this value is key to managing the people and the work in a way that maximizes the value created.

What is the motivation for IBM to invest in this kind of long term, highly exploratory work in science and potential technologies? How does it couple to the categories of value I listed earlier? The value comes in a number of forms. First and foremost, investment at the leading edge, and in unexplored areas, often allows nature to reveal new possibilities, which become the base for the advance of technology. Examples abound. Within IBM we have seen recent examples in the leverage of "giant magnetoresistance", a phenomenon discovered and understood as part of our scientific efforts, as the key to the next generation of disk drives. The scanning tunneling microscope, which earned its discoverers the Nobel Prize in physics in 1986, has since become a key element of the metrology needed to continue the progress in memory chips. Being the source of the science, and having this work in the same organization which focuses on leading edge technology, produces invention and patents of enormous value. A second value produced from these efforts is that this long range work is often a natural entry point for many of the best and brightest minds into our company. Over time, for a significant number of these people, interests shift, and they move into more applied work, into technology, into senior management positions. In our environment these shifts are legitimized and encouraged. Today several people who joined IBM Research to do very long range research are to be found as senior managers of multi-billion-dollar businesses and as vice presidents and senior vice presidents of the corporation. The Ford Motor Corporation has had a program encouraging similar motion for a number of years and achieved similar results.

A third form of value created by a successful long range scientific research program is the luster which it achieves, and the value of that luster to the whole enterprise. This luster has value not only in affecting how customers and the public think of IBM, its image, but also in much more practical ways such as the recruiting of top talent, who want to be associated with a recognized and successful team.


*******************

Article 895

The Committee understands that the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences has visited the area, met with members of the affected community, and suggested ways that NIEHS might work with state and local public health officials and researches to determine what environmental factors might be contributing to this asthma cluster. The Committee commends the NIEHS for its involvement and encourages the NIEHS to continue to support the communitys efforts to identify and, if possible, mitigate any environmental causes of the Hunts Point asthma problem.


-Parkinsons disease. The Committee is pleased that the September 1995 workshop on the link between Parkinsons and other neurodegenerative disorders and the environment was well-attended and productive. The Committee also notes that the report on the August 1995 NIH-wide Parkinsons research planning workshop concluded that the environment is likely to play a role in the cause of Parkinsons. As a result, the Committee encourages the NIEHS to increase its focus on the environmental link to Parkinsons, using the findings of its September 1995 workshop and the August 1995 research planning workshop as a guide.


-Nanofabrication. The Committee is interested in the promise for improving the detection, prevention and remediation of environmentally related illnesses by the incorporation of cell and molecular biology into techniques of nanofabrication which is the synthetic preparation of materials and devices with structural dimensions of approximately one-millionth of an inch and molecular self-assembly. The Committee encourages the Institute to continue to advance these technologies, especially in partnership with those who have demonstrated an extensive record of work with these technologies.


-Minority populations. There has been an increased recognition in the scientific and public health community that minority and disadvantaged populations are disproportionately subjected to a variety of health hazards, including air pollution. Its relationship to asthma and other pulmonary disorders is beginning to be well documented. To help examine these problems, the Committee encourages the NIEHS to consider convening a national scientific summit on air quality issues faced by the nations urban communities, working closely with the public health and scientific community.

*******************

Article 896

1994 Panel Recommendation: "Work on high-Tc materials and processing should be focused on specific processes and device structures related to the division's core mission. More generic activity should be deemphasized, since it is less likely to have an impact and will greatly dilute resources' (p. 47). Division Response: The focus in this program areas is changing along the lines suggested. The high-temperature superconductor junction work emphasizes application to voltage standards, and the bolometer work focuses on radiometer applications in collaboration with the Physics Laboratory. The microwave applications program has ended its work in tunable devices and, at the request of the industry, is starting a collaborative program on the development of metrology leading to improved devices. Measurement methods for interface resistance continue to be improved, and two new industry collaborators will be added to the effort in fiscal year 1995.

1994 Panel Recommendation: "The division should obtain a sample preparation apparatus, or convert an existing one, for dedication to magnetics' (p. 47).

Division Response: Purchase of a deposition chamber for magnetics was initiated even before this recommendation. The rew apparatus will have extensive analysis capability, including an ultra-high-vacuum scanning tunneling microscope. Many parts have been received. Assembly will take place shortly in a newly remodeled laboratory.

1994 Panel Recommendation: "The division should decide if storage-oriented work should be expanded according to its fiscal year 1992 plans; if not, it should be discontinued..... (p. 47). Division Response: Work is expanding at a reasonable pace given the realities of resources and facilities. The NIST/EEEL reputation in magnetics research and metrology grew significantly over the past year, and many companies, both large and small, requested either research collaborations or assistance with measurement problems. The program in magnetic recording metrology developed with a focus on recording heads, especially magnetoresistive and giant magnetoresistive heads. A series of informal seminars was held with speakers from industry and organizations such as university recording centers. In addition, EEEL initiated a joint seminar with the Physics Laboratory in Gaithersburg using EEEL's new teleconferencing facility. EEEL initiated an interaction with IDEMA and is discussing possible approaches to participation in its standards efforts. ANSI protocol standards remain in the domain of the Computer Systems Laboratory and are probably not now appropriate for EEEL participation. EEEL maintains a strong interaction with the ATP-funded project on recording heads at the National Storage Industry Consortium and has interacted with the ATP awardee Nonvolatile Electronics (Plymouth, Nfinn.) in the imaging of memory systems.


*******************

Article 897

A good example of this evolution is the comparison between Aldomet, a drug to treat high blood pressure discovered in the 1950's, and Vasolec, a drug discovered in the 1980's to treat the same condition. Aldomet was discovered by testing compounds directly in animals and patients for lowering blood pressure without knowing the drug's molecular action. Vasolec was designed using a test tube assay--very precisely--that clearly defined its mechanism of action. A patient requires between 1,000 and 2,000 milligrams of Aldomet for effective treatment whereas a 5 to 10 milligram dose of Vasolec is highly effective. There is inherently much greater safety for the

NEW DISEASE TARGETS WILL CHALLENGE OUR INDUSTRY

This is an exciting time for our industry, without question, but a time in which as Merck;s own experience illustrates, R&D on complex chronic illnesses is increasingly challenging and costly. The approaches to treatment of the degenerative diseases of an aging population during the next decade will test our skill at molecular engineering and require commitments to R&D of enormous magnitude. In testing drugs in older patients with chronic illnesses, larger trials for longer times are required to insure safety and efficacy. It must always be remembered that innovative pharmaceutical R&D remains synonymous with high risk and high costs.

Looking at just three major disease targets where industry scientists are at work -- cancer, AIDS and osteoporosis -- we can offer an impressive pipeline of hope, but within a constant shadow of potential failure. At Merck, we have research projects to combat these diseases in various stages of development, from early laboratory investigation to actual submission for FDA approval.

Cancer: let me begin with cancer. The field of research for the treatment of cancer is undergoing a dramatic change. Molecular understanding of the metabolic pathways that go awry and cause cancerous growth of cells has progressed dramatically in the last decade.

*******************

Article 898

DR. TREFIL: Okay, this is part of the revolution I was talking about. When you look at the history of medicine there have been a couple of just kind of discontinuous changes. When we learned about germs and public sanitation. When we were able to perform surgery under anesthetic. When we discovered antibiotics. And there's another one of those coming just around the corner, which is genetic therapy. People are talking about if you get cancer, you go to your doctor's office and you get a shot. Just the way if you get pneumonia now you go and get a pill.
MR. WHITE: This plays into it?
DR. TREFIL: It's part of it. It's part of the revolution that's going on.
MR. WHITE: All right. We've given the general area without giving away the exact answer. Here's question number two. It sounds like National Geographic Magazine now.
Two. How old is the earliest human?
DR. TREFIL: Yeah, well, you see, there's been this long going problem in human evolution. We can trace the evolution of the apes up to a certain point. The proto-apes. We can trace the evolution of modern humans back and there's always been kind of a gap between there and every so often somebody finds a new fossil and this gap closes a little more. Something like that happened recently. I'm not going to give away the answers.
MR. WHITE: Okay, but the question stands, how old is the earliest human? Question number three:
Three. What is nanoengineering?
It sounds like a company in Silicon Valley. N-a-n-oengineering. Nanoengineering. So what?
DR. TREFIL: It probably is a company in Silicon Valley. But this is part of one of the other areas where we are impacted every day is that we're learning to make all kinds of new materials. This started with the space program and Teflon and all that. But there are literally a hundred new materials being put on the market every day now and this is sort of part of that. A new way of dealing with it.
MR. WHITE: Okay, question number four:
Four. Why are there so many earthquakes in California and so few earthquakes in Wyoming?
DR. TREFIL: Actually, what I like to think about this and what I ask my students is: what would you do if you could predict earthquakes? You had a way of saying with 90 percent probability there will be a scale 8 earthquake in San Francisco.
MR. WHITE: I'd get in the construction business.
DR. TREFIL: In the next 30 days. Who do you tell? Think about that for a minute.
MR. WHITE: Who do you tell?

*******************

Article 899

What is photonics? Photonics is the technological marriage of optics and electronics. We are all familiar with photonic devices that exist today such as modern electronic telephones connected by fiber optic networks. Facsimile machines, which combine optical sensors, computers, and telecommunications, have become an indispensable fixture on the American business scene. Compact disc players have made museum pieces out of phonograph records. These devices represent only very early developments in photonics technology. Next generation photonic devices will affect nearly every aspect of our lives. Microscopic photonic devices will give doctors new tools to probe the human body without the need for dangerous surgery. Photonic chips will provide the backbone for the next generation of imaging technology: probable developments include three- dimensional imaging systems for computer-aided tomography (CAT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) medical technologies; three- dimensional training simulators for commercial and military pilots; and three-dimensional high definition television for consumer markets.

A significant component of photonics technology is nanofabrication, the manufacture of small structures with dimensions one thousand times thinner than a human hair. The National Science Foundation reports that nanofabrication is one of the underpinnings of an industry that has $500 billion in annual sales. Nanofabrication is rapidly spreading into fields other than photonics, such as sensors and actuators for micromechanics and biology. Only one national facility exists for such research and very few American universities have advanced facilities of this kind. Nanofabrication is probably the most significant technology development of the last twenty years and holds great promise for the foreseeable future. Nanofabrication technology is a major component of the UAH photonics research and education center.

Other key components of photonics technology include polymeric thin films, computer-aided photonics design, and ultra-high speed microelectronics - the basis for optoelectronic circuits combining optics and electronics on a single, integrated chip. These elements constitute the technology of photonics. These vital photonics elements are targeted throughout the technology focus areas of the Administration's Defense Technology Conversion Program. The nation that becomes the leader in this key technology will be the international leader in optical fiber systems, supercomputers, radar, pattern recognition, and medical imaging. Photonics will lead development of microsensors and actuators with critical applications in advanced energy technology, space exploration, and medical diagnostics. Efficiency in energy use demands sophisticated sensors for measurement, compact computers, and elegant control systems. Photonics will provide this capability if we have the foresight to provide the resources for applied technology development and deployment.

A report by the National Critical Technologies Panel (NCTP) explains the selection of microelectronics and optoelectronics (photonics) as a critical technology by noting that the technologies, "... will continue to refine and eventually transform the way we live by providing improved communications, stronger defense capabilities, and innovations in medical services."

The President's Defense Technology Conversion, Reinvestment, and Transition Assistance Program identifies eleven technology focus areas as key dual-use technologies for development. Photonics technology and nanofabrication are critical elements in all eleven of these key dual- use technology focus areas.

Photonics represents an opportunity for American industry, with major research and educational assistance from universities, to reclaim worldwide preeminence in consumer electronics, expand our dominant position in computing and create the desired domestic employment in advanced technology.

*******************

Article 900

The conferees agree to a total authorization of $100.2 million for tactical technology.
Materials and electronics technology


The amended budget request included $71.8 million for materials and electronics technology.


The House bill would add $140.0 million to the requested amount for research on the following: lithography, fuel cells, optoelectronics, MIMIC, electronic module technology, and diamond and silicon carbide materials.


The Senate amendment would add $60.0 million for the following: optoelectronics, nanoelectronics, and metal matrix composites.


The conferees agree to the following additional projects at the amounts indicated:
Millions

Optoelectronics $25.0


Nanoelectronics 9.0


Metal matrix composites 26.0


MIMIC 10.0

*******************

Article 901

Because of the importance of these materials, the committee has supported a DARPA-industry-academic partnership to develop continuous fiber metal matrix composite materials and manufacturing processes over the past three years. The intent is to establish a full-scale production capacity within five years. The committee is disappointed that the administration has not included funding for this high priority program in its amended defense budget request. The committee is concerned that the United States, having led in the fundamental research on these new materials, will fail to exploit this advantage. If manufacturing improvements are first achieved overseas, the U.S. could become a secondary player in the global metal matrix market and may never develop domestic sources for these important materials. The committee is aware that the Office of Technology Assessment (OTA) has reported that by the year 2000, the "use of advanced structural materials is likely to have a dramatic impact on gross national product, balance of trade, and employment." For these economic and military reasons, the nation cannot fall behind and fail to capitalize on the research base, lest the long-term viability of the U.S. aerospace industry be jeopardized.


Accordingly, the committee authorizes $26.0 million in program element 602712E for fiscal year 1993 to continue DARPA participation in the partnership to develop the technology and manufacturing processes for this important material.


Nanoelectronics


The committee recognized the progress made in the SEMATECH program in the development of advanced microscale electronic manufacturing through consortia. The committee is also aware of the importance of nanoelectronics in achieving high performance subminiature electronic components for advanced defense systems. The committee recommends that DARPA initiate on a competitive basis a research effort to advance nanolithography, nanoelectronics, and high speed computer visualization. The committee urges that cost-sharing by the private sector be sought in this effort. The committee recommends an additional $9.0 million in program element 602712E.


Optoelectronics


The committee recognizes that optoelectronics is a defense critical technology in which the United States lags behind international competitors. Because optoelectronics is an enabling technology for highly responsive, reliable information transmission, display, and processing systems, advances in optoelectronics can play a key role in improving U.S. economic competitiveness and ensuring national security.

*******************

Article 902

Therefore, if a pilot demonstration facility is not operational within the near future, DOD will be forced to rely on offshore suppliers, thereby further inhibiting the development of this critical industry in the United States. In its 1991 report the Committee recommended that DARPA fund such a pilot demonstration facility. The Committee directs the Director of DARPA to ensure that the additional funds will result in a functional AMLCD pilot demonstration facility no later than 1994. In order to accelerate the project, the Committee encourages DARPA to use existing 1992 funds. DARPA should approve a project proposal no later than January 31, 1993 and provide a report to the Committees on Appropriations by February 15, 1993 on its plan for implementing this direction. Funding for this pilot demonstration facility shall be managed separately from DARPAs high definition display systems program but be closely coordinated with it.


materials and electronics technology (0602712E)


DARPA requested $71,800,000 for materials and electronics technology. The Committee recommends $251,600,000, an increase of $179,800,000. This includes increases only for the following purposes as recommended by the House Armed Services Committee in its 1993 authorization report: $75,000,000 for x-ray lithography, to include its specific earmarks only for laser plasma point source, coronary artery disease imaging, and consortia subprojects; $10,000,000 for metal matrix and ceramics; $10,000,000 for diamond and silicon carbide materials; $10,000,000 for multi-chip modules; $11,800,000 for carbonate based direct fuel cells; $25,000,000 for optoelectronics; and $9,000,000 for nanoelectronics. The Committee recommends additional increases only for the following purposes: $5,000,000 for acoustic charge transport technology; $9,000,000 for fund an advanced materials research center for work on plasma, electromagnetic and microwave research, microelectronics development, thermo-fluids research, thin layer deposition technologies, metallic alloy research, and creation of new technologies in signal generation, detection, interpretation, and analysis; and $15,000,000 for the infrared sensitive materials producibility project. Within the amount provided, $3,000,000 is only for multi-chip module automated design tools and processes.


The Committee continues to support DARPAs efforts to advance the state of metal-coated ceramic microsphere technology for low observable applications. This technology may provide critical benefits for combat vehicles, naval vessels and other defense systems. The Committee urges DARPA to pursue research directed at such applications during fiscal year 1993.

*******************

Article 903

In addition, the committee strongly recommends the development of synthetic diamond materials for increasing the power levels of multi chip modules. The committee recommends an authorization increase of $10 million for silicon carbide diamond and essential electronic base materials in PE 602712E.


The committee recommends an additional increase of $10 million to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) request for multi chip modules and urges partnership and consortia activity.
Microwave/millimeter-wave monolithic integrated circuit program (MIMIC)

The committee is aware that the budget request for fiscal year 1993 does not adequately fund the microwave-millimeter monolithic integrated circuit program (MIMIC) Phase Two contract efforts, and that if not corrected the contractors may not be able to fulfill the contract requirements. Therefore, the committee recommends adding $10 million for MIMIC Phase Two to the fiscal year 1993 request and understands that this will result in a decrease required for the fiscal year 1994 budget requirement. The committee directs the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) to support fully the on-going MIMIC Phase Two contracts through to completion.
Nanoelectronics

The committee recognizes the importance of nanoelectronics in achieving high performance subminiature electronic components for advanced defense systems. The committee also recognizes the advances of the SEMATECH program in the development of advanced microscale electronic manufacturing through consortia. The committee recommends that the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) begin a consortium consisting of a national laboratory and a research university to be located in the proximity of a concentration of high technology private research enterprises to advance nanolithography, nanoelectronics and high speed supercomputer visualization. The committee recommends $9 million in PE 603739E for this purpose.
Optoelectronics

The committee recognizes the rapidly developing science of optoelectronics that is leading to lightweight, highly responsive information transmission and processing systems. The Administration recognizes this dual-use technology as one of the critical technologies essential for superior defense systems that will also contribute significantly to national economic strength.


*******************

Article 904

TESTIMONY DESCRIPTORS:
   BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE; BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES; PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY; MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP.
 
 
80-H701-21 TESTIMONY NO: 6     June 26, 1979 p. 138-162
 
WITNESSES (and witness notations):
   MUELLER, GEORGE E. (pres, System Dev Corp; pres, Amer Inst of Aeronautics and Astronautics)
   WRIGHT, CHRISTOPHER (Sr Analyst, Office of Technology Assessment; former dir, Columbia Univ Council for Atomic Age Studies)
   THIEL, ADOLF K., SR. (vp, def and space systems group, TRW, Corp)
   GATOS, HARRY C. (electrical materials and molecular engineering prof, MIT)
 
STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Differing views on bill; perceived economic impediments to space industrialization; policy issues surrounding space R&D management; prematurity of MPS, and need for further experimentation.
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   Space Industrialization Corp, estab

*******************

Article 905

NASA is focusing HSR&T funding on program elements that mature technologies needed to support lunar sortie missions and ISS access, while reducing program elements targeting longer-term or lower priority needs. As NASA concentrates the use of the Shuttle on ISS assembly, some ISS utilization will be deferred. As a result, transitional action is being taken now to reduce and/or discontinue approximately 34 contracts and activities previously planned at $344 million in FY 2006. After termination costs and buyouts, these actions will yield $243 million in FY06 that will be applied toward accelerating the CEV and CLV.

-- Exploration Systems Research and Technology (ESR&T):

NASA is realigning projects to support the ESAS recommended architecture requirements.

This realignment has resulted in a focused and phased requirements driven R&T program in which some projects are curtailed, some are adjusted, and some are added. Ongoing projects are streamlined to deliver Technology Readiness Level 6 capabilities when needed (system preliminary design review) so as to enable the CEV, launch systems, and lunar lander development schedules. Examples of technology projects focused on the near- term include ablative thermal protection and liquid oxygen- methane propulsion for CEV. Additional work will be phased in after the first few years for lunar lander propulsion systems and nontoxic power and reaction control for launch vehicles. Funding for technologies applicable to lunar surface systems, such as in situ resource utilization (ISRU), are deferred and phased in only during the out years. Discontinued, descoped or delayed technology projects include nanomaterials, inflatable structures, large-scale solar power, intelligent robotic systems, in space assembly, Mars mission specific technologies, and electric propulsion. Transitional action is being taken now to discontinue plans for 80 tasks and activities, previously planned at $206 million in FY 2006, which do not directly support ESAS architecture or schedule requirements. These actions will yield $174 million in FY 2006 that will be applied towards accelerated development of CEV and CLV.

-- Prometheus Nuclear Systems and Technology (PNS&T):

Prior to the completion of the ESAS study, NASA was planning to restructure the Prometheus Nuclear Systems and Technology (PNS&T) program to prioritize NASA's nuclear technology development efforts to provide power on the surface of the Moon for a lunar outpost. ESAS results indicate that, given resource constraints, surface nuclear power systems to support potential long-duration stays on the Moon will not be required until after 2018.

*******************

Article 906

NASA is focusing HSR&T funding on program elements that mature technologies needed to support lunar sortie missions and ISS access, while reducing program elements targeting longer-term or lower priority needs. As NASA concentrates the use of the Shuttle on ISS assembly, some ISS utilization will be deferred. As a result, transitional action is being taken now to reduce and/or discontinue approximately 34 contracts and activities previously planned at $344 million in FY 2006. After termination costs and buyouts, these actions will yield $243 million in FY06 that will be applied toward accelerating the CEV and CLV.

-- Exploration Systems Research and Technology (ESR&T):

NASA is realigning projects to support the ESAS recommended architecture requirements.

This realignment has resulted in a focused and phased requirements driven R&T program in which some projects are curtailed, some are adjusted, and some are added. Ongoing projects are streamlined to deliver Technology Readiness Level 6 capabilities when needed (system preliminary design review) so as to enable the CEV, launch systems, and lunar lander development schedules. Examples of technology projects focused on the near- term include ablative thermal protection and liquid oxygen- methane propulsion for CEV. Additional work will be phased in after the first few years for lunar lander propulsion systems and nontoxic power and reaction control for launch vehicles. Funding for technologies applicable to lunar surface systems, such as in situ resource utilization (ISRU), are deferred and phased in only during the out years. Discontinued, descoped or delayed technology projects include nanomaterials, inflatable structures, large-scale solar power, intelligent robotic systems, in space assembly, Mars mission specific technologies, and electric propulsion. Transitional action is being taken now to discontinue plans for 80 tasks and activities, previously planned at $206 million in FY 2006, which do not directly support ESAS architecture or schedule requirements. These actions will yield $174 million in FY 2006 that will be applied towards accelerated development of CEV and CLV.

-- Prometheus Nuclear Systems and Technology (PNS&T):

Prior to the completion of the ESAS study, NASA was planning to restructure the Prometheus Nuclear Systems and Technology (PNS&T) program to prioritize NASA's nuclear technology development efforts to provide power on the surface of the Moon for a lunar outpost. ESAS results indicate that, given resource constraints, surface nuclear power systems to support potential long-duration stays on the Moon will not be required until after 2018.

*******************

Article 907

HANSEN: Well, that makes me feel better.

Thank you.

CURRAN: OK. Can I make one other comment about labs?

I think if you look at the labs, just taking one area, the research conducted at the base in nanomaterials and nanocharacterization, I don't think you see the quality of labs anywhere else in the country that they have at the base.

And again, AFIT students have access to that, have access to the composite labs. It's a significant research initiative there.

HANSEN: I would agree that both of them are excellent schools. I wouldn't challenge that one bit.

(CROSSTALK)

PRINCIPI: Congressman Hansen...

*******************

Article 908

2- Increasing the total budget for the core hydrogen and fuel cell program from $144M in FY04, to 169M in FY05, and a budget request for FY06 of $183M.

3- Refocusing some of the research, for example away from on- board reformation of gasoline, and into other more promising areas, such as on high pressure hydrogen storage tanks in the short term and advanced materials in the long term. (Some overlap with the Freedom Car project).

4- Increased funding in the area of infrastructure, and its technology verification

5- Increasing the hydrogen related research funded from the office of basic science in such areas as nanomaterials and membrane sciences.

However, progress in other areas has been slow. For example, the needed systems model to assess the evolution from near term technology to long term technologies is still being planned. Further more, the area of demonstrating low cost hydrogen production technologies has not been planned out, at a time when the price of gasoline has climbed to almost twice the levels at the NRC report was released.

Systems Analysis of US Energy Options

The development of a systems analysis model for the evolution of the entire energy program should have been far ahead by now. Instead, the program still relies on piecemeal analysis of each option, which often misses the links between various systems.


*******************

Article 909

The small table I have up on the overhead is taken from the Progressive Policy Institute Metropolitan Indicator Study. And they look at the top 50 metropolitan areas in the country and evaluate their performance in a number of criteria, one of which is their aggravated innovation capacity.

You will notice that RTP is number one. And this is a function of the number of degrees granted in science and engineering as a weighted measure of the total workforce, and the amount of academic R&D, and the breadth of that R&D occurring in the area.

ARO, with its close proximity to RTP, is able to maintain a strong link to this capacity and this innovative capability. 

Through professional staff research, there are 41 Ph.D.s in ARO that are conducting joint projects, have joint appointments with the research universities in the area, and are -- act as program managers with active research in areas as diverse as polymers, microelectronics, nanocomposites, intense lasers, etcetera.

ARO's location in the Research Triangle Park also provides a very rich environment for technology, professional staff recruitment and interactions.

And in this very densely-populated slide, which I can see is not terribly legible, you see just a representative sample of some of the active research projects being conducted by members of the ARO professional staff.

As stated before, ARO interactions have resulted in Nobel-prize winning research in new areas of science.

But also key to our current success is the ARO professional staff are active in areas like soldier nanotechnology, soldier power, quantum computer, which is the one hope we have for defeating Moore's Law, quantum communication, biotechnology. RTP is now the third largest biotechnology cluster in the United States and ARO sits as part of this, and that will speak to the Army's ability to integrate and identify new technologies, not only in medicine and biotechnology directly, but in materials and advanced electronics.


*******************

Article 910

MR. GAETANO: Good afternoon. Our corporation was formed at the request ff the arsenal labs, at a time when the site had lost about two thirds of work load and relevant people. Our idea is simple, demonstrate to the Army that we can improve the site and lower the Army's costs by developing space. By the end of this year, we will have brought more than $20 million in new private and public investment to the site and this fall will add -- nearly all of them defense contractors and advanced technology firms.

Two years ago we delivered the site master plan. It recommends consolidating the Army's research prototyping and manufacturing facilities and will convey the site to a new owner and develop the surrounding campus with the advance technology companies. General Paul Kern while he was commander of the Army Materiel Command and Major General Ross Thompson while Commander Kaycon (ph) had key roles in shaping the master plan. General Kern met with us three times. General Thompson drove the entire effort. Both specifically recommended conveying the real estate and eliminating the nonmission distractions and costs associated with being a landlord. The net result provides the Army with combined manufacturing and R&D center designed to its core mission and surrounded by enhanced private technology companies to enhance DOD capacities as well as defray costs. It's our vision at the site to deploy more than 2,000 professionals by 2010. Under New York State's leadership, more than $4 billion is being invested within 10 miles of the arsenal in new nanotechnology, semiconductor, biotech and energetics R & D facilities. That has already brought new tenants to the arsenal site. Companies design and build at nanotech labs, produce nanomaterials for research and supply the semiconductors. We've just begun construction of a new defense and security innovation center that has its first seven tenants signed up ready to move there.

As Harry said, planning thus far, and with experience and knowledge accumulated both over the last six years, we believe DOD consummate conveyance, on terms beneficial to the Army and in one third the time it usually takes. Transformation of our site is well under way. Confirmation by this commission of Secretary Rumsfeld's recommendations for oversight is the next step to a greater military value and new economic growth in the capital region. Thank you.

GENERAL NEWTON: Thank you very much, gentlemen. Let me see again if any of my colleagues have any comments. Okay. Well, thank you very, very much for your presentation. I'm sure this will be very helpful for us in our deliberations again. Thank you.

*******************

Article 911

Construction:

05-R-320 LINAC coherent light source (LCLS) 29,760 83,000 83,000 83,000 G6+53,240

05-R-321 Center for Functional Nanomaterials (BNL) 18,317 36,553 36,553 36,553 G6+18,236

04-R-313 The molecular foundry (LBNL) 31,828 9,606 9,606 9,606 22,222

03-SC-002 Project engineering & design (PED) SLAC 19,914 2,544 2,544 2,544 17,370

03-R-312 Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences, ORNL 17,669 17,669

03-R-313 Center for Integrated Nanotechnology 30,650 4,626 4,626 4,626 26,024

02-SC-002 Project engineering and design (VL) 1,996 1,996

99-E-334 Spallation neutron source (ORNL) 79,891 41,744 41,744 41,744 38,147

Subtotal, Construction 230,025 178,073 178,073 178,073 51,952

*******************

Article 912

FY 2006 will mark the completion of construction and the initial operation of the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS). The SNS will be significantly more powerful (by about a factor of 10) than the best spallation neutron source now in existence-ISIS at the Rutherford Laboratory in England. We estimate the facility will be used by 1,000-2,000 scientists and engineers annually from academia, national and federal labs, and industry for basic and applied research and for technology development. The high neutron flux (i.e., high neutron intensity) from the SNS will enable broad classes of experiments that cannot be done with today's low flux sources. For example, high flux enables studies of small samples, complex molecules and structures, time dependent phenomena, and very weak interactions. The FY 2006 budget authority request completes funding for the SNS Project. This will involve procurement and installation of equipment for instrument systems, completion of an accelerator readiness review, commissioning of ring and target systems, and meeting all requirements to begin operations; and all SNS facilities will be turned over to operations. The estimated Total Project Cost remains constant at $1,411,700,000.

Operations will begin in FY 2006 at four of the five NSRCs: the Center for Nanophase Materials at ORNL, the Molecular Foundry at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL), the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies at Sandia National Laboratories/Los Alamos National Laboratory (SNL/LANL), and the Center for Nanoscale Materials at ANL. The exception is the Center for Functional Nanomaterials at BNL, which is scheduled to begin operations in FY 2008. The NSRCs are user facilities for the synthesis, processing, fabrication, and analysis of materials at the nanoscale. They are designed to promote rapid advances in the various areas of nanoscale science and technology and are part of the DOE contribution to the National Nanotechnology Initiative. The NSRCs are sited adjacent to or near existing BES synchrotron or neutron scattering facilities to enable rapid characterization of newly fabricated materials. FY 2006 funds are requested for construction of NSRCs located at LBNL, at SNL/LANL, and at BNL. Funds are also requested to complete the Major Item of Equipment (MIE) for the NSRC at ANL

The Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS) will continue Project Engineering Design (PED) and FY 2006 budget authority is requested to initiate physical construction of the LCLS conventional facilities. Funding will be provided separately for preconceptual design of instruments for the facility. BES funding will also be provided to partially support, in conjunction with the High Energy Physics program, operation of the SLAG Linac. This will mark the beginning of the transition to LCLS operations at SLAC. The LCLS project will provide the world's first demonstration of an x-ray free-electron-laser (FEL) in the 1.5-15 A (angstrom) range, 10 billion times greater in peak power and peak brightness than any existing coherent x-ray light source, and that has pulse lengths measured in femtoseconds, the timescale of electronic and atomic motions. The advance in brightness is similar to that of a synchrotron over a 1960's laboratory xray tube. Synchrotrons have revolutionized science across disciplines ranging from atomic physics to structural biology. Advances from the LCLS are expected to be even more dramatic. The LCLS project leverages capital investments in the existing SLAC Linac as well as technologies developed for linear colliders and for the production of intense electron beams with radio-frequency photocathode guns. The availability of the SLAC linac for the LCLS project creates a unique opportunity for demonstration and use of x-ray FEL radiation. The estimated Total Project Cost is $379,000,000.

*******************

Article 913

Berry research (AK)

199

200

Biobased nanocomposite research (ND) 199

Biomass-based energy research (OK, MS)

1,143

1,143

Biotechnology (NC)

304

228

Biotechnology test production (IA)

199

199

Blocking anhydrous methamphetamine production (IA)

240

Bovine tuberculosis (MI)

*******************

Article 914

This process awards access to researchers without regard to the source of their research funds. The three centers support researchers with DOE, NIH and NASA awards, among others. This ensures that the most promising proposals from across the entire science and engineering community gain access to highend computing hardware, support staff and software. Examples include

- Simulation of cosmological evolution to test basic theories of the large-scale structure of the universe

- Quantum chromodynamics simulations to test the Standard Model of particle physics

- Numerical simulation of weather and severe storms for accurate prediction of severe storm tracks

- Climate modeling to understand the effects of climate change and assess global warming

- Studying the dynamics and energetics of complex macromolecules for drug design

- Nanomaterials design and assessment

- Fluid flow studies to design more fuel-efficient aircraft engines

From these, let me highlight just two examples of scientific exploration enabled by high-end computing, and the limitations on computing power we currently face.

A revolution is underway in both astronomy and high-energy physics, powered in no small part by highend scientific computing. New data, taken from high-resolution sky surveys, have exposed profound questions about the nature and structure of the universe. We now know that the overwhelming majority of the matter in the universe is of an unknown type, dubbed "dark matter," that is not predicted by the Standard Model of physics. Observations also suggest that an unknown "dark energy" is causing the universe to expand at an ever-increasing rate. Both of these discoveries are profound and unexpected. Large-scale simulations at NCSA and other high-end computing centers are being used to investigate models of the evolution of the universe, providing insight in the viability of competing theories. The goal of these simulations is to create a computational "universe in a box" that evolves from first principles to conditions similar to that seen today. These cosmological studies also highlight one of the unique capabilities of large-scale scientific simulation - the ability to model phenomena where experiments are otherwise not possible.

*******************

Article 915

The Committee on Government-Industry Partnerships review of ATP findings on these points, reproduced below, are hereby incorporated in this testimony. They are conclusions that I fully endorse both as a Committee member and as an early stage private technology financial advisor and investor. Operational Improvements and New Initiatives The Committee on Government-Industry Partnerships review of ATP contains a series of recommendations and new initiatives aimed at improving and enhancing ATP even given its already high standard. Those recommendations are incorporated in full below. Here, I simply want to call out three of the areas where Congressional action might both improve ATP and enable the nation to better benefit from ATP's strengths. ATP could be more stably funded at a higher level; its reach could be extended to the states to aid in the achievement of their own technology program activities and to better leverage overall technology program spending; ATP could be mandated to help the federal mission agencies better achieve their goals. Each is worth a brief comment before letting the Committee's review of ATP speak for itself on these issues. The US and global economies are now entering a period of accelerated technology change within established markets and even more so at the frontiers where innovation crosses traditional technical disciplinary boundaries - areas like bioinformatics, nanobiology, organic materials engineering, novel energy technologies, micro- and nano- electro- and optical-mechanical systems to name just a few. The issues in such areas are so at the frontier of technical progress, the time-frames of development so uncertain, the risks so daunting, the need for stable investment so evident, that we can be assured there will be private market failures and a corresponding need for government support to technical progress. These are precisely the kinds of areas where more ATP funding that is stable and predictable over a longer time horizon could be especially effective. NIST and ATP have also developed a clear set of competencies in program design, project selection and performance-assessment that can and should be made more widely available both inside the government and to the states. It is hard, for example, to imagine that all of the related state-level technology programs could withstand the kind of scrutiny that ATP has been subject to. Those programs could therefore be made likely much more effective and efficient were ATP's proven metrics in selection and assessment made available to them. Even a modest degree of coordination that would little burden NIST, could better leverage overall technology spending, thereby improving performance and returns. Much the same can be said for the federal mission agencies' own technology programs, where the leverage from even modest coordination of ATP and agency mission funding across common technical areas could end up delivering an enormous boost to accelerate development and the realization of economic gains for the nation. Core Findings and Recommendations of Committee on Government- Industry Partnerships review of ATP 1 .
*******************

Article 916

ATP could be more stably funded at a higher level; its reach could be extended to the states to aid in the achievement of their own technology program activities and to better leverage overall technology program spending; ATP could be mandated to help the federal mission agencies better achieve their goals. Each is worth a brief comment before letting the Committee's review of ATP speak for itself on these issues.

The US and global economies are now entering a period of accelerated technology change within established markets and even more so at the frontiers where innovation crosses traditional technical disciplinary boundaries - areas like bioinformatics, nanobiology, organic materials engineering, novel energy technologies, micro- and nano- electro- and optical-mechanical systems to name just a few.

The issues in such areas are so at the frontier of technical progress, the time-frames of development so uncertain, the risks so daunting, the need for stable investment so evident, that we can be assured there will be private market failures and a corresponding need for government support to technical progress. These are precisely the kinds of areas where more ATP funding that is stable and predictable over a longer time horizon could be especially effective.

*******************

Article 917

NSF's core funding in disciplinary research is another important component of our support for these activities. Program such as Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) provide opportunities for university researchers to work with industry researchers and vice versa. One example of GOALI support is the collaboration between Jim Heath of UCLA and Stan Williams of Hewlett Packard that led to the chemical gates already mentioned. Awards for research in computer science, materials science, physics, electrical engineering and other disciplines are supporting researchers and graduate students in these areas.

NSF Centers programs are another avenue for supporting these efforts. A new center for NanoBioTechnology at Cornell in New York and the Center for Synthesis, Growth, and Analysis of Electronic Materials at the University of Texas are two of the Science and Technology Centers that are especially relevant to these efforts. The Center for Discrete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science at Rutgers in New Jersey has conducted basic research on quantum and DNA computing algorithms. Several of the Engineering Research Centers perform supportive research for these new computing technologies, including the Data Storage Systems Center at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania, the Center for Optoelectronic Computing Systems, at the University of Colorado, and the Center for Compound Semiconductor Microelectronics, at the University of Illinois.

The NSF has numerous, flexible mechanisms to capitalize on these emerging research areas and to support projects targeting individual researchers, groups of researchers, graduate training, collaborations with industry.

US Federal Agencies Activities

I will briefly summarize the activities and coordination of these activities across multiple agencies. For Quantum Information Science (QIS) there is Coordinating Oversight group that promotes a coherent national program. This group consists of representatives of all the federal sponsors and it meets twice a year. Participating agencies are Army, Navy, Air Force, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), National Security Agency, National Reconnaissance Agency, National Science Foundation, NASA, National Institute for Standards and Technology, and the Department of Energy. The overall support level for QIS has risen from about $1M in FY 1995 to over S30M in FY2000. Approximately 66% of this investment is from mission agencies and offices, with the remainder from the NSF. Research thrusts include foundations of QIS, quantum algorithms and software, quantum communication, quantum computation, qubit implementation concepts, applications to clock synchronization, imaging, and other areas.


*******************

Article 918

NSF Support for Computing Beyond Silicon The NSF has many modes for support of this research. I want to mention a few in particular. The Information Technology Research Initiative, which will announce its first awards tomorrow, has a "revolutionary computing" component that will make several awards in these areas. The initiative allows NSF to identify areas for research, to encourage our supported scientists to build teams that cross disciplinary and institutional boundaries, and to make larger awards with extended durations that are necessary for longer range research. A second initiative, Nanoscale Science and Engineering will also support activities for these areas, especially the necessary inventions to build and assemble the small devices that these new computing technologies will require. NSF's core funding in disciplinary research is another important component of our support for these activities. Program such as Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) provide opportunities for university researchers to work with industry researchers and vice versa. One example of GOALI support is the collaboration between Jim Heath of UCLA and Stan Williams of Hewlett Packard that led to the chemical gates already mentioned. Awards for research in computer science, materials science, physics, electrical engineering and other disciplines are supporting researchers and graduate students in these areas. NSF Centers programs are another avenue for supporting these efforts. A new center for NanoBioTechnology at Cornell in New York and the Center for Synthesis, Growth, and Analysis of Electronic Materials at the University of Texas are two of the Science and Technology Centers that are especially relevant to these efforts. The Center for Discrete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science at Rutgers in New Jersey has conducted basic research on quantum and DNA computing algorithms. Several of the Engineering Research Centers perform supportive research for these new computing technologies, including the Data Storage Systems Center at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania, the Center for Optoelectronic Computing Systems, at the University of Colorado, and the Center for Compound Semiconductor Microelectronics, at the University of Illinois. The NSF has numerous, flexible mechanisms to capitalize on these emerging research areas and to support projects targeting individual researchers, groups of researchers, graduate training, collaborations with industry. US Federal Agencies Activities I will briefly summarize the activities and coordination of these activities across multiple agencies. For Quantum Information Science (QIS) there is Coordinating Oversight group that promotes a coherent national program. This group consists of representatives of all the federal sponsors and it meets twice a year. Participating agencies are Army, Navy, Air Force, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), National Security Agency, National Reconnaissance Agency, National Science Foundation, NASA, National Institute for Standards and Technology, and the Department of Energy. The overall support level for QIS has risen from about $1 M in FY 1995 to over $30M in FY2000. Approximately 66% of this investment is from mission agencies and offices, with the remainder from the NSF. Research thrusts include foundations of QIS, quantum algorithms and software, quantum communication, quantum computation, qubit implementation concepts, applications to clock synchronization, imaging, and other areas. The Information Technology Research and Development activity across multiple agencies is also coordinating research in new technologies for high-performance computing. I chair the ITR&D coordinating committee and NSF staff are closely involved in these coordination efforts. 
*******************

Article 919

The Defense EPSCOR (DEPSCoR) program contributes to the states' goals of developing and enhancing their research capabilities, while simultaneously supporting the Defense Department's research goals. DEPSCoR grants are based on recommendations from the EPSCOR state committees and the Department's own evaluation and ranking. Research proposals are only funded if they provide the Defense Department with research in areas important to national defense.

In my own experience, the North Dakota State EPSCOR program set forth criteria that encouraged collaboration with Defense Department scientists and engineers prior to the submission of my proposal to the DEPSCoR program. This motivated me to establish contacts and collaborative relationships with DOD researchers on two important projects: Navy sponsored research on nanomaterials, i.e., particles smaller than one-billionth of a meter, and Air Force sponsored research on corrosion. Because of these initial contacts, I was also able to develop meaningful relationships with other researchers in academia and industry that have helped me establish my research in both areas. The initial investments have paid off in North Dakota.

Several DOD supported researchers, with critical help from DEPSCoR, have formed a center that focuses its efforts on corrosion, targeting specifically, corrosion problems of aluminum alloys found in the C/KC- 135 transport and F22 fighter planes. This center now enjoys considerable support from the Department of Defense and private industry. We are now marshalling our resources to form a center that is directed to advancing the knowledge base and applications of nanomaterials.

DEPSCoR was originally authorized by Section 257 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 1995 (P.L. 103-337), which states that the Defense EPSCOR program's objectives are to: enhance the capabilities of institutions of higher education in eligible states to develop, plan, and execute science and engineering research that is competitive under the peer-review systems used for awarding Federal research assistance; and increase the probability of long-term growth in the competitively awarded financial assistance that universities in eligible states receive from the Federal Government for science and engineering research.Last year the Defense Department issued an announcement of a competition under the aegis of the Defense EPSCOR program. A total of 256 projects were received from the 18 states eligible to participate in DEPSCoR. Following review of the individual projects by the appropriate research office (the Army Research Office, the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, the Office of Naval Research, or the Air Force Office of Scientific Research), 81 projects were selected for funding with $24 million made available in FY 2000. The average award was $296,000.


*******************

Article 920

The Defense EPSCoR (DEPSCoR) program contributes to the states' goals of developing and enhancing their research capabilities, while simultaneously supporting the Defense Department's research goals. DEPSCoR grants are based on recommendations from the EPSCoR state committees and the Department's own evaluation and ranking. Research proposals are only funded if they provide the Defense Department with research in areas important to national defense. In my own experience, the North Dakota State EPSCoR program set forth criteria that encouraged collaboration with Defense Department scientists and engineers prior to the submission of my proposal to the DEPSCoR program. This motivated me to establish contacts and collaborative relationships with DOD researchers on two important projects: Navy sponsored research on nanomaterials, i.e., particles smaller than one-billionth of a meter, and Air Force sponsored research on corrosion. Because of these initial contacts, I was also able to develop meaningful relationships with other researchers in academia and industry that have helped me establish my research in both areas. The initial investments have paid off in North Dakota. Several DOD supported researchers, with critical help from DEPSCoR, have formed a center that focuses its efforts on corrosion, targeting specifically, corrosion problems of aluminum alloys found in the C/KC-135 transport and F22 fighter planes. This center now enjoys considerable support from the Department of Defense and private industry. We are now marshalling our resources to form a center that is directed to advancing the knowledge base and applications of nanomaterials. DEPSCoR was originally authorized by Section 257 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 1995 (P.L. 103-337), which states that the Defense EPSCoR program's objectives are to: -enhance the capabilities of institutions of higher education in eligible states to develop, plan, and execute science and engineering research that is competitive under the peer-review systems used for awarding Federal research assistance; and -increase the probability of long-term growth in the competitively awarded financial assistance that universities in eligible states receive from the Federal Government for science and engineering research. Last year the Defense Department issued an announcement of a competition under the aegis of the Defense EPSCoR program. A total of 256 projects were received from the 18 states eligible to participate in DEPSCoR. Following review of the individual projects by the appropriate research office (the Anny Research Office, the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, the Office of Naval Research, or the Air Force Office of Scientific Research), 81 projects were selected for funding with $24 million made available in FY 2000. The average award was $296,000. Let me now tell you something about our program in North Dakota. Twenty three DEPSCoR projects have been funded in North Dakota since 1994. The projects were developed by North Dakota science and engineering researchers in collaboration with DOD program officers to address topics critical to defense readiness and capabilities. The program is a true partnership between DOD, the State of North Dakota, and the universities involved. The research topics cover a wide spectrum of issues important to the DOD mission. We have DOD sponsored efforts in logistics, database development, encryption science, and a variety of materials-based programs. For example, one of my projects has led to a very safe and low temperature method of production of semiconductor materials such as gallium arsenide, tin sulfide, and tin selenide in a new and useful form, quantum dots, i.e., less than one ten billionth of a meter. Semiconductors in this form open the door to broad range of useful properties. We shall be seeing these "nanomaterials" in all phases of our lives where electronic equipment is important: from very sensitive optical detectors to micro lasers to vanishingly small transmitters. In North Dakota, we are now imbedding these incredibly small particles in polymers to develop an entirely new class of polymeric materials. The sky is the limit here. One could say that the smaller the particle
*******************

Article 921

X-ray crystallography provides the ultimate details of molecular structures. The ultrabright synchrotron-generated X-rays have made it possible to increase resolution to levels that were not believed possible just a few years ago. For example, NCRR supported scientists at Stanford University recently determined the detailed structure of the protein fibrinogen, which is essential to stop bleeding but also contributes to heart disease and stroke. As the human genome project identifies more genes, more proteins of unknown structure and function will require characterization in order to define the causes of disease and to develop novel therapies for them. In FY 1999, NCRR plans to increase its support for investigator access to synchrotron beamlines.
Other recent developments in areas related to genomic research will generate major new multidisciplinary initiatives. Areas such as laser light source technology and design of extremely small-scale tools using nanofabrication and nanobioengineering techniques are now so advanced that engineers and scientists are constructing devices for detection of single molecules and miniaturizing instruments that will save expensive reagents and man hours. For example, the development of microchips for ultrasensitive DNA analysis is a revolutionary approach to miniaturization. Manufacture of these chips requires multidisciplinary expertise in production of computer chips, molecular biology, optics, and gene sequencing that will bring together physicists, engineers, and biologists. NCRR plans to extend its support to provide these powerful tools to identify genetic risk factors which may be modulated by diet, changes in lifestyles or other approaches to prevent, delay or treat disease.
BIOLOGY OF BRAIN DISORDERS
Thanks to powerful new technologies such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, or FMRI, and multiphoton laser scanning microscopy, scientists have gained increasingly detailed insight into the biology of the human brain. NCRR-supported researchers at Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, and Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center have combined the powers of fMRI, high-speed networks, and a supercomputer to produce high-quality 3-D images of the working brain within seconds of recording. To capitalize on these technological enhancements, NCRR will support development and acquisition of instruments that provide images of the brain, including images of tissue damaged by neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's or Alzheimer's, in even more detail than currently possible. In addition, NCRR will support development of user-friendly database structures to facilitate investigator analysis and synthesis of vast data sets. GENETIC MEDICINE
Nonhuman biological and disease models are indispensable to biomedical research.
*******************

Article 922

In one of these studies, U.S. makers of coordinate measuring machines (including: Brown & Sharpe Mfg. Co. of North Kingston, Rhode Island; Giddings & Lewis Inc. of Fond Du Lac, Wisconsin; and The L.S. Starrett Co. of Athol, Massachusetts) credit NIST with saving them 5-10 years in early-stage research. Firms also attributed annual production- efficiency gains -- ranging from 1030 percent between 1985 and 1988 -- to NIST's pioneering work on computer-based, error-compensation methods. The technology enabled them to produce lower cost designs without sacrificing performance. In all, the effort is estimated to have produced first-level benefits totaling more than $93 million. Generated by an initial NIST investment of $430,000 over 10 years, this total does not include scrap reduction and other secondary benefits realized by manufacturers because of the increased accuracy of their inspection equipment.
The legislative mandate of the ATP is to promote "commercializing new scientific studies rapidly" and "refining manufacturing practices." This offers a tremendous scope of opportunity to spur America's creative technology energies. The objective of some projects is to develop technologies that enable lower cost, higher quality, or faster-to-market products. The ultimate objective of others is to develop the know-how to provide new-tothe-world or radically improved products and services. The ATP has a high potential impact on U.S. economic growth because, unlike other Federal technology programs, it makes investments explicitly for this reason rather than for some other National goal.
One example of this is Nanophase Technologies Corporation of Burr Ridge, Illinois, a 2-person start-up company that received an ATP award to develop an innovative process for producing ultra-fineceramic and metal powders at the nanometer scale for applications ranging from skin care products to high performance engine parts. Their ATP research enabled the company to attract support from major industrial organizations and venture capital firms, who furthered commercial development. The company has launched new products, and negotiated an agreement with E. Merck for international distribution of one early project this year. The early applications are projected to yield more than $20 million in annual revenues within three years, and more products are in development. The company has opened the world's first facility devoted to commercial-scale production of nanocrystalline materials, and expects to employ several hundred workers within the next two years. "All of this represents huge progress and success for NTC," says Robert Cross, CEO and President of the company, "and it is directly the result of the challenge and support of the Advanced Technology Program."
I also want to take a look at the ATP program to see how it can be strengthened. I believe ATP is a critically important program that provides enormous benefits to our Nation's long-term economic prosperity. ATP projects play a special role in fostering technological developments that have long-term payoffs and widespread benefits to the economy -- the kind of initiatives that would otherwise not be funded by the private sector. The President's budget provides strong support for this program.
Since becoming Secretary, I have heard a number of questions raised -- by you as well as by others -- about the program and its funding. I am committed to examining questions that have been raised -- about the budget process, about the ratio of new projects to old ones, about big companies winning grants outside of consortia, about whether applicants first.go to private capital markets for funding, and about whether States lacking strong R&D bases should have a better chance of participating in this program. I want to look at all of these questions, and I've asked my staff to consult with public and private experts and ATP participants and prepare an analysis and recommendations for me.

*******************

Article 923

Computational analysis and simulation is allowing biomedical researchers to study and predict the activity of potential new drugs at the molecular level. CTC is working jointly with Steven Ealick, et al., director of MacCHESS, a group using the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source for Macromolecular Modeling. Using existing highspeed connections between CTC and MacCHESS, the project is building the capability, for the first time, for pharmaceutical companies and academic researchers to interact dynamically with x-ray crystallographic analyses at the synchrotron, rather than discovering long after the beam run that the sample was defective or the beam positioning non-optimal. While initially the researchers are using processors on the CTC SP systems, ultimately a small IBM SP may be installed at the synchrotron site used for dynamic analysis, with longer-scale simulation needs being met using the far larger SP2 at the CTC.
PSC is working with the Center for Light Microscopy and Biotechnology, an NSF Science and Technology Center at Carnegie Mellon University, to develop an Automated Interactive Microscope. This microscope will couple leading edge-microscopy and high performance computing through high speed networks allowing the realtime tagging of chemical reactants in the cell. It will open new research horizons in biology by giving researchers the ability to control the release of chemically active agents at critical moments in cell life, and to monitor the cell's subsequent development.
The personal computer controlling a scanning tunneling microscope (STM) in the Beckman Institute at UIUC used software integrated over a LAN with the NCSA Convex C3880, TMC CM-5, and SGI graphics workstation to enable realtime imaging and nanolithography of silicon surfaces in order to create novel quantum electronic devices. Working with the laboratory's director, Joseph Lyding (Dept. of Electrical and Computing Engineering, UIUC and Beckman Institute) and inventor of a widely used STM, NCSA staff members Rachael Brady and Clint Potter extended this telemicroscope to the Internet and demonstrated the feasibility of using advanced imaging instrumentation linked with advanced computing capabilities from anywhere in the world. The project was featured in the special issue of Research and Development Magazine (Oct 25, 1993) on Winning in the 21st century.
NII Testbeds As a partner in Common Knowledge: Pittsburgh, an innovative project introducing networking and computing into the entire Pittsburgh School District, PSC is working with numerous partners, including Digital Equipment, Apple Computer and both telephone (Bell of Pennsylvania) and cable TV (TCI) companies, to create a prototypical, cost-effective approach to widespread use of advanced technology in public education.
In collaboration with researchers and physicians at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, the PSC is developing an NII-based digital library of pathology images, and the applications and software technology which will enhance the practice, teaching and cost- effective delivery of pathology.
NCSA in collaboration with UIUC and the Champaign County Chamber of Commerce have been building CCnet, an NII testbed during the last 18 months. Over 200 people from over 70 community organizations have been involved since April, 1993 in defining six major applications experiments in small business, health care, education, government and community services, agribusiness, and geographic information systems (GIS). The first of 20 multimegabit/s links into the community was established with the Urbana Free Library in August 1994. All the high schools and a number of small businesses are hooking on in September. NCSA is establishing a large GIS server which will be available over CCnet to community projects. Partners in CCnet include Time-Warner cable, Ameritech, DEC, Motorola, and potentially MCI and AT&T.

*******************

Article 924

Panel I

Dr. Edward Hudgins, Director of Regulatory Studies, CATO Institute, 1000 Massachusetts Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20001

Mr. Sergio Mazza, President, American National Standards Institute, 11 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036

Dr. Richard Gowen, President, South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, 501 East St. Joseph Street, Rapid City, SD 57701-3995

Mr. Robert W. Cross, President and Chief Executive Officer, Nanophase Technologies Corporation, 453 Commerce Street, Burr Ridge, IL 60521

Ms. Suzanne Iudicello, Vice President, Center for Marine Conservation, 1725 DeSales Street, N.W., Suite 500, Washington, D.C. 20036

Mr. Gary W. Jones, President and Chief Executive Officer, FED Corporation, Hudson Valley Research Park, 1580 Route 52, Hopewell Junction, NY 12533

*******************

Article 925

Perhaps the most important aspect of this explosion is that these extraordinarily powerful machines are being connected together in a coherent global web of networks using satellites, cellular and other wireless systems, local area networks, national fiber optic systems and undersea fiber optic connections. Connected to this global "neural system" is millions of data bases -- vast amounts of usable Information -- that by the turn of the century will be accessible anywhere to anyone with the right equipment. The metabolisms of whole societies will Increase significantly during this period as the amount of information doubles many times over.

This explosion in basic computing capability has spawned a number of technologies that will also have profound implications. Molecular nanotechnology is one of the most Intriguing. From the beginning of time, we have always manufactured things from the top down. We started with something larger, like a tree, and shaped that raw material into the products we use. Nanotech will, sometime soon after the turn of the century, begin to produce usable products that are the result of "bottom-up" manufacturing that uses molecular-sized machines that move Individual atoms Into predetermined configurations that have been programmed by computer programs. This process will produce no waste and therefore no negative by-products. Raw feed stock, like crude oil, could be converted directly into very complex devices made out of diamond -- for diamond is nothing more than the carbon atoms of crude oil configured In another way.

That means that things like aircraft engines could, within a couple of decades be manufactured by pumping a slurry of raw materials -- like crude oil -- into a tank and throwing a switch that activates an invisible little machine at the bottom. The nanomachine would, at the rate of billions per minute, replicate itself and, when there were enough of them, they would switch over to building, atom-by-atom the jet engine. In about 20 minutes the whole thing would be complete -- and perfect. There would be no flaws In the crystalline structure. The cost of manufacturing would be about the cost of the feed stock -- in this case maybe 10 barrels of oil or, at today's prices, $150.

Almost all of the cost of manufacturing would shift over to the intellectual side and reside in the design of the software that drove the system. There would be no need for manufacturing plants and machine tools as we know them.

If this happens as anticipated, the effect on the military will be extraordinary. To build you one image of what this might mean, consider that one or two computer scientists -- perhaps in some small Asian country -- could, without any significant industrial infrastructure, design and manufacture billions of invisible, molecular-sized machines that have sophisticated sensor suites and destruction capabilities. They could then be dumped out of a aircraft at very high altitudes and within a couple of days be spread eye throughout the world by the upper air currents. Every human body would have breathed them, every gasoline engine would have them inside of them, they would be everywhere. By simply checking the right string of DNA they could be programmed to respond to people of certain races -- or perhaps, short guys, with bald heads and mustaches. A radio signal might be all that was needed to activate them to do their deeds, whatever they were.

*******************

Article 926

STATEMENTS AND DISCUSSION:
   Possible biological and biomedical effects of natural and artificial electromagnetic fields, citing relevant Federal research (bibl, p. 81-83); potential human health hazards associated with microwave emissions from police radar guns, based on epidemiological studies.
   Importance of increased research on health effects of microwave exposure; description and findings of APL collaborative research regarding effects of low-level microwave radiation on the nonhuman primate eye.
 
INSERTIONS:
   a. Grundler, W.; and Kaiser, F., "Experimental Evidence for Coherent Excitations Correlated with Cell Growth" Nanobiology, 1992, with graphs and bibliography (p. 84-97).
   b. Grundler, W. (et al.), "Mechanisms of Electromagnetic Interaction with Cellular Systems" Sept. 1991, with bibliography (p. 98-118).
   c. Kues, H. A. (et al.), "Effects of 2.45-GHz Microwaves on Primate Corneal Endothelium" Bioelectromagnetics, 1985, with bibliography (p. 127-138).
   d. Kues, H. A. (et al.), "Increased Sensitivity of the Non-Human Primate Eye to Microwave Radiation Following Opthalmic Drug Pretreatment" Bioelectromagnetics, 1992, with bibliography (p. 142-156).
   e. Phelan, Anne M. (et al., John Hopkins Univ), "Modification of Membrane Fluidity in Melanin-Containing Cells by Low-Level Microwave Radiation" Bioelectromagnetics, 1992, with bibliography (p. 157-172).
 
CONTENT NOTATION:
   Radar traffic guns use by police officers, possible adverse health effects
 
TESTIMONY DESCRIPTORS:
   BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH; BIBLIOGRAPHIES; EPIDEMIOLOGY; ANIMAL EXPERIMENTATION; OPHTHALMOLOGY AND OPTOMETRY; PRIMATES; EYE DISEASES AND DEFECTS; GRUNDLER, W.; KAISER, F.; DRUGS
 




























































































 













